In   this   narrative   of   mine   I   have   departed   from   my   usual   practice   of   relating   only   those   incidents   and   scenes   at   which   I   myself   was   present . 
Certain   chapters ,    therefore ,    are   written   in   the   third   person . 
I   wish   to   assure   my   readers   that   I   can   vouch   for   the   occurrences   related   in   these   chapters . 
If   I   have   taken   a   certain   poetic   licence   in   describing   the   thoughts   and   feelings   of   various   persons ,    it   is   because   I   believe   I   have   set   them   down   with   a   reasonable   amount   of   accuracy . 
I   may   add   that   they   have   been   vetted   by   my   friend   Hercule   Poirot   himself . 
In   conclusion ,    I   will   say   that   if   I   have   described   at   too   great   length   some   of   the   secondary   personal   relationships   which   arose   as   a   consequence   of   this   strange   series   of   crimes ,    it   is   because   the   human   and   personal   elements   can   never   be   ignored . 
Hercule   Poirot   once   taught   me   in   a   very   dramatic   manner   that   romance   can   be   a   by-product   of   crime . 
As   to   the   solving   of   the . . .    mystery ,    I   can   only   say   that   in   my   opinion   Poirot   showed   real   genius   in   the   way   he   tackled   a   problem   entirely   unlike   any   which   had   previously   come   his   way . 
It   was   in   June   of   1935   that   I   came   home   from   my   ranch   in   South   America   for   a   stay   of   about   six   months . 
It   had   been   a   difficult   time   for   us   out   there . 
Like   everyone   else ,    we   had   suffered   from   world   depression . 
I   had   various   affairs   to   see   to   in   England   that   I   felt   could   only   be   successful   if   a   personal   touch   was   introduced . 
My   wife   remained   to   manage   the   ranch . 
I   need   hardly   say   that   one   of   my   first   actions   on   reaching   England   was   to   look   up   my   old   friend ,    Hercule   Poirot . 
I   found   him   installed   in   one   of   the   newest   type   of   service   flats   in   London . 
I   accused   him    ( and   he   admitted   the   fact )    of   having   chosen   this   particular   building   entirely   on   account   of   its   strictly   geometrical   appearance   and   proportions . 
But   yes ,    my   friend ,    it   is   of   a   most   pleasing   symmetry ,    do   you   not   find   it   so ? 
I   said   that   I   thought   there   could   be   too   much   squareness   and ,    alluding   to   an   old   joke ,    I   asked   if   in   this   super-modern   hostelry   they   managed   to   induce   hens   to   lay   square   eggs . 
Ah ,    you   remember   that ? 
no   science   has   not   yet   induced   the   hens   to   conform   to   modern   tastes ,    they   still   lay   eggs   of   different   sizes   and   colours ! 
I   examined   my   old   friend   with   an   affectionate   eye . 
He   was   looking   wonderfully   well   hardly   a   day   older   than   when   I   had   last   seen   him . 
 You're   looking   in   fine   fettle ,    Poirot ,    I   said . 
 You've   hardly   aged   at   all . 
In   fact ,    if   it   were   possible ,    I   should   say   that   you   had   fewer   grey   hairs   than   when   I   saw   you   last . 
And   why   is   that   not   possible ? 
Do   you   mean   your   hair   is   turning   from   grey   to   black   instead   of   from   black   to   grey ? 
But   surely   that's   a   scientific   impossibility ! 
As   usual ,    Hastings ,    you   have   the   beautiful   and   unsuspicious   mind . 
Years   do   not   change   that   in   you ! 
You   perceive   a   fact   and   mention   the   solution   of   it   in   the   same   breath   without   noticing   that   you   are   doing   so ! 
I   stared   at   him ,    puzzled . 
Without   a   word   he   walked   into   his   bedroom   and   returned   with   a   bottle   in   his   hand   which   he   handed   to   me . 
I   took   it ,    for   the   moment   uncomprehending . 
Revivit .    To   bring   back   the   natural   tone   of   the   hair . 
Revivit   is   not   a   dye . 
In   five   shades ,    Ash ,    Chestnut ,    Titian ,    Brown ,    Black . 
You   have   dyed   your   hair ! 
Ah ,    the   comprehension   comes   to   you ! 
So   that's   why   your   hair   looks   so   much   blacker   than   it   did   last   time   I   was   back . 
Dear   me ,    I   said ,    recovering   from   the   shock . 
I   suppose   next   time   I   come   home   I   shall   find   you   wearing   false   moustaches   or   are   you   doing   so   now ? 
His   moustaches   had   always   been   his   sensitive   point . 
He   was   inordinately   proud   of   them . 
My   words   touched   him   on   the   raw . 
No ,    no ,    indeed ,    mon   ami . 
That   day ,    I   pray   the   good   God ,    is   still   far   off . 
He   tugged   at   them   vigorously   to   assure   me   of   their   genuine   character . 
Well ,    they   are   very   luxuriant   still ,    I   said . 
Never ,    in   the   whole   of   London ,    have   I   seen   a   pair   of   moustaches   to   equal   mine . 
A   good   job   too ,    I   thought   privately . 
But   I   would   not   for   the   world   have   hurt   Poirot's   feelings   by   saying   so . 
Instead   I   asked   if   he   still   practised   his   profession   on   occasion . 
I   know ,    I   said ,    that   you   actually   retired   years   ago
To   grow   the   vegetable   marrows ! 
And   immediately   a   murder   occurs   and   I   send   the   vegetable   marrows   to   promenade   themselves   to   the   devil . 
And   since   then   I   know   very   well   what   you   will   say   I   am   like   the   prima   donna   who   makes   positively   the   farewell   performance ! 
That   farewell   performance ,    it   repeats   itself   an   indefinite   number   of   times ! 
In   truth ,    it   has   been   very   like   that . 
Each   time   I   say :    this   is   the   end . 
But   no ,    something   else   arises ! 
And   I   will   admit   it ,    my   friend ,    the   retirement   I   care   for   it   not   at   all . 
If   the   little   grey   cells   are   not   exercised ,    they   grow   the   rust . 
I   see ,    I   said . 
You   exercise   them   in   moderation . 
For   Hercule   Poirot   nowadays   only   the   cream   of   crime . 
Has   there   been   much   cream   about ? 
Not   long   ago   I   had   a   narrow   escape . 
But   I   I ,    Hercule   Poirot ,    was   nearly   exterminated . 
Not   so   much   enterprising   as   careless ,    said   Poirot . 
But   let   us   not   talk   of   it . 
You   know ,    Hastings ,    in   many   ways   I   regard   you   as   my   mascot . 
Poirot   did   not   answer   my   question   directly . 
As   soon   as   I   heard   you   were   coming   over   I   said   to   myself :    something   will   arise . 
As   in   former   days   we   will   hunt   together ,    we   two . 
But   if   so   it   must   be   no   common   affair . 
It   must   be   something   he   waved   his   hands   excitedly   something   recherche   delicate   fine   He   gave   the   last   untranslatable   word   its   full   flavour . 
Upon   my   word ,    Poirot ,    I   said . 
Anyone   would   think   you   were   ordering   a   dinner   at   the   Ritz . 
Whereas   one   cannot   command   a   crime   to   order ? 
But   I   believe   in   luck   in   destiny ,    if   you   will . 
It   is   your   destiny   to   stand   beside   me   and   prevent   me   from   committing   the   unforgivable   error . 
What   do   you   call   the   unforgivable   error ? 
I   turned   this   over   in   my   mind   without   quite   seeing   the   point . 
Well ,    I   said   presently ,    smiling ,    has   this   super   crime   turned   up   yet ? 
A   frown   of   perplexity   creased   his   forehead . 
His   hands   automatically   straightened   an   object   or   two   that   I   had   inadvertently   pushed   awry . 
I   am   not   sure ,    he   said   slowly . 
There   was   something   so   odd   about   his   tone   that   I   looked   at   him   in   surprise . 
Suddenly   with   a   brief   decisive   nod   of   the   head   he   crossed   the   room   to   a   desk   near   the   window . 
Its   contents ,    I   need   hardly   say ,    were   all   neatly   docketed   and   pigeonholed   so   that   he   was   able   at   once   to   lay   his   hand   upon   the   paper   he   wanted . 
He   came   slowly   across   to   me ,    an   open   letter   in   his   hand . 
He   read   it   through   himself ,    then   passed   it   to   me . 
Tell   me ,    mon   ami ,    he   said . 
What   do   you   make   of   this ? 
I   took   it   from   him   with   some   interest . 
It   was   written   on   thickish   white   notepaper   in   printed   characters : 
Mr .    Hercule   Poirot ,    You   fancy   yourself ,    don't   you ,    at   solving   mysteries   that   are   too   difficult   for   our   poor   thick-headed   British   police ? 
Let   us   see ,    Mr .    Clever   Poirot ,    just   how   clever   you   can   be . 
Perhaps   you'll   find   this   nut   too   hard   to   crack . 
Look   out   for   Andover ,    on   the   21st   of   the   month . 
I   glanced   at   the   envelope . 
Postmarked   WC1 ,    said   Poirot   as   I   turned   my   attention   to   the   postmark . 
Well ,    what   is   your   opinion ? 
I   shrugged   my   shoulders   as   I   handed   it   back   to   him . 
Some   madman   or   other ,    I   suppose . 
That   is   all   you   have   to   say ? 
Well   doesn't   it   sound   like   a   madman   to   you ? 
Yes ,    my   friend ,    it   does . 
I   looked   at   him   curiously . 
You   take   this   very   seriously ,    Poirot . 
A   madman ,    mon   ami ,    is   to   be   taken   seriously . 
A   madman   is   a   very   dangerous   thing . 
Yes ,    of   course ,    that   is   true   I   hadn't   considered   that   point   But   what   I   meant   was ,    it   sounds   more   like   a   rather   idiotic   kind   of   hoax . 
Perhaps   some   convivial   idiot   who   had   had   one   over   the   eight . 
I   meant   a   fellow   who   was   tight . 
No ,    damn   it ,    a   fellow   who   had   had   a   spot   too   much   to   drink . 
Merci ,    Hastings   the   expression   tight   I   am   acquainted   with   it . 
As   you   say ,    there   may   be   nothing   more   to   it   than   that    . 
But   you   think   there   is ? 
I   asked ,    struck   by   the   dissatisfaction   of   his   tone . 
Poirot   shook   his   head   doubtfully ,    but   he   did   not   speak . 
What   have   you   done   about   it ? 
I   showed   it   to   Japp . 
He   was   of   the   same   opinion   as   you   a   stupid   hoax   that   was   the   expression   he   used . 
They   get   these   things   every   day   at   Scotland   Yard . 
I ,    too ,    have   had   my   share    . 
But   you   take   this   one   seriously ? 
There   is   something   about   that   letter ,    Hastings ,    that   I   do   not   like    . 
In   spite   of   myself ,    his   tone   impressed   me . 
He   shook   his   head ,    and   picking   up   the   letter ,    put   it   away   again   in   the   desk . 
If   you   really   take   it   seriously ,    can't   you   do   something ? 
As   always ,    the   man   of   action ! 
But   what   is   there   to   do ? 
The   county   police   have   seen   the   letter   but   they ,    too ,    do   not   take   it   seriously . 
There   are   no   fingerprints   on   it . 
There   are   no   local   clues   as   to   the   possible   writer . 
In   fact   there   is   only   your   own   instinct ? 
Instinct   is   a   bad   word . 
It   is   my   knowledge   my   experience   that   tells   me   that   something   about   that   letter   is   wrong
He   gesticulated   as   words   failed   him ,    then   shook   his   head   again . 
I   may   be   making   the   mountain   out   of   the   anthill . 
In   any   case   there   is   nothing   to   be   done   but   wait . 
Well ,    the   21st   is   Friday . 
If   a   whacking   great   robbery   takes   place   near   Andover   then
Ah ,    what   a   comfort   that   would   be    ! 
The   word   seemed   to   be   a   very   extraordinary   one   to   use . 
A   robbery   may   be   a   thrill   but   it   can   hardly   be   a   comfort ! 
Poirot   shook   his   head   energetically . 
You   are   in   error ,    my   friend . 
You   do   not   understand   my   meaning . 
A   robbery   would   be   a   relief   since   it   would   dispossess   my   mind   of   the   fear   of   something   else . 
Murder ,    said   Hercule   Poirot . 
NOT   FROM   CAPTAIN   HASTINGS   PERSONAL   NARRATIVE
Mr .    Alexander   Bonaparte   Cust   rose   from   his   seat   and   peered   near-sightedly   round   the   shabby   bedroom . 
His   back   was   stiff   from   sitting   in   a   cramped   position   and   as   he   stretched   himself   to   his   full   height   an   onlooker   would   have   realized   that   he   was ,    in   reality ,    quite   a   tall   man . 
His   stoop   and   his   near-sighted   peering   gave   a   delusive   impression . 
Going   to   a   well-worn   overcoat   hanging   on   the   back   of   the   door ,    he   took   from   the   pocket   a   packet   of   cheap   cigarettes   and   some   matches . 
He   lit   a   cigarette   and   then   returned   to   the   table   at   which   he   had   been   sitting . 
He   picked   up   a   railway   guide   and   consulted   it ,    then   he   returned   to   the   consideration   of   a   typewritten   list   of   names . 
With   a   pen ,    he   made   a   tick   against   one   of   the   first   names   on   the   list . 
It   was   Thursday ,    June   20th . 
I   had   been   impressed   at   the   time   by   Poirot's   forebodings   about   the   anonymous   letter   he   had   received ,    but   I   must   admit   that   the   matter   had   passed   from   my   mind   when   the   21st   actually   arrived   and   the   first   reminder   of   it   came   with   a   visit   paid   to   my   friend   by   Chief   Inspector   Japp   of   Scotland   Yard . 
The   CID   inspector   had   been   known   to   us   for   many   years   and   he   gave   me   a   hearty   welcome . 
Well ,    I   never ,    he   exclaimed . 
If   it   isn't   Captain   Hastings   back   from   the   wilds   of   the   what   do   you   call   it ! 
Quite   like   old   days   seeing   you   here   with   Monsieur   Poirot . 
 You're   looking   well ,    too . 
Just   a   little   bit   thin   on   top ,    eh ? 
Well ,    that's   what   we're   all   coming   to . 
I   was   under   the   impression   that   owing   to   the   careful   way   I   brushed   my   hair   across   the   top   of   my   head   the   thinness   referred   to   by   Japp   was   quite   unnoticeable . 
However ,    Japp   had   never   been   remarkable   for   tact   where   I   was   concerned ,    so   I   put   a   good   face   upon   it   and   agreed   that   we   were   none   of   us   getting   any   younger . 
Except   Monsieur   Poirot   here ,    said   Japp . 
Quite   a   good   advertisement   for   a   hair   tonic ,    he'd   be . 
Face   fungus   sprouting   finer   than   ever . 
Coming   out   into   the   limelight ,    too ,    in   his   old   age . 
Mixed   up   in   all   the   celebrated   cases   of   the   day . 
Train   mysteries ,    air   mysteries ,    high   society   deaths   oh ,    he's   here ,    there   and   everywhere . 
Never   been   so   celebrated   as   since   he   retired . 
I   have   already   told   Hastings   that   I   am   like   the   prima   donna   who   makes   always   one   more   appearance ,    said   Poirot ,    smiling . 
I   shouldn't   wonder   if   you   ended   by   detecting   your   own   death ,    said   Japp ,    laughing   heartily . 
 That's   an   idea ,    that   is . 
Ought   to   be   put   in   a   book . 
It   will   be   Hastings   who   will   have   to   do   that ,    said   Poirot ,    twinkling   at   me . 
That   would   be   a   joke ,    that   would ,    laughed   Japp . 
I   failed   to   see   why   the   idea   was   so   extremely   amusing ,    and   in   any   case   I   thought   the   joke   was   in   poor   taste . 
Poirot ,    poor   old   chap ,    is   getting   on . 
Jokes   about   his   approaching   demise   can   hardly   be   agreeable   to   him . 
Perhaps   my   manner   showed   my   feelings ,    for   Japp   changed   the   subject . 
Have   you   heard   about   Monsieur   Poirot's   anonymous   letter ? 
I   showed   it   to   Hastings   the   other   day ,    said   my   friend . 
Of   course ,    I   exclaimed . 
It   had   quite   slipped   my   memory . 
Let   me   see ,    what   was   the   date   mentioned ? 
The   21st ,    said   Japp . 
 That's   what   I   dropped   in   about . 
Yesterday   was   the   21st   and   just   out   of   curiosity   I   rang   up   Andover   last   night . 
It   was   a   hoax   all   right . 
One   broken   shop   window   kid   throwing   stones   and   a   couple   of   drunk   and   disorderlies . 
So   just   for   once   our   Belgian   friend   was   barking   up   the   wrong   tree . 
I   am   relieved ,    I   must   confess ,    acknowledged   Poirot . 
 You'd   quite   got   the   wind   up   about   it ,    hadn't   you ? 
Bless   you ,    we   get   dozens   of   letters   like   that   coming   in   every   day ! 
People   with   nothing   better   to   do   and   a   bit   weak   in   the   top   storey   sit   down   and   write   em . 
They   don't   mean   any   harm ! 
Just   a   kind   of   excitement . 
I   have   indeed   been   foolish   to   take   the   matter   so   seriously ,    said   Poirot . 
It   is   the   nest   of   the   horse   that   I   put   my   nose   into   there . 
 You're   mixing   up   mares   and   wasps ,    said   Japp . 
Just   a   couple   of   proverbs . 
Well ,    I   must   be   off . 
Got   a   little   business   in   the   next   street   to   see   to   receiving   stolen   jewellery . 
I   thought   I'd   just   drop   in   on   my   way   and   put   your   mind   at   rest . 
Pity   to   let   those   grey   cells   function   unnecessarily . 
With   which   words   and   a   hearty   laugh ,    Japp   departed . 
He   does   not   change   much ,    the   good   Japp ,    eh ? 
He   looks   much   older ,    I   said . 
Getting   as   grey   as   a   badger ,    I   added   vindictively . 
You   know ,    Hastings ,    there   is   a   little   device   my   hairdresser   is   a   man   of   great   ingenuity   one   attaches   it   to   the   scalp   and   brushes   one's   own   hair   over   it   it   is   not   a   wig ,    you   comprehend   but
Once   and   for   all   I   will   have   nothing   to   do   with   the   beastly   inventions   of   your   confounded   hairdresser . 
What's   the   matter   with   the   top   of   my   head ? 
 It's   not   as   though   I   were   going   bald . 
The   hot   summers   out   there   naturally   cause   the   hair   to   fall   out   a   bit . 
I   shall   take   back   a   really   good   hair   tonic . 
And ,    anyway ,    what   business   is   it   of   Japp's ? 
He   always   was   an   offensive   kind   of   devil . 
And   no   sense   of   humour . 
The   kind   of   man   who   laughs   when   a   chair   is   pulled   away   just   as   a   man   is   about   to   sit   down . 
A   great   many   people   would   laugh   at   that . 
From   the   point   of   view   of   the   man   about   to   sit ,    certainly   it   is . 
Well ,    I   said ,    slightly   recovering   my   temper .     ( 
I   admit   that   I   am   touchy   about   the   thinness   of   my   hair .  ) 
 I'm   sorry   that   anonymous   letter   business   came   to   nothing . 
I   have   indeed   been   in   the   wrong   over   that . 
About   that   letter ,    there   was ,    I   thought ,    the   odour   of   the   fish . 
Alas ,    I   grow   old   and   suspicious   like   the   blind   watchdog   who   growls   when   there   is   nothing   there . 
If   I'm   going   to   cooperate   with   you ,    we   must   look   about   for   some   other   creamy   crime ,    I   said   with   a   laugh . 
You   remember   your   remark   of   the   other   day ? 
If   you   could   order   a   crime   as   one   orders   a   dinner ,    what   would   you   choose ? 
I   fell   in   with   his   humour . 
No ,    I   think   not . 
It   must   be   murder   red-blooded   murder   with   trimmings ,    of   course . 
Who   shall   the   victim   be   man   or   woman ? 
Scene   of   the   crime   well ,    what's   wrong   with   the   good   old   library ? 
Nothing   like   it   for   atmosphere . 
As   for   the   weapon   well ,    it   might   be   a   curiously   twisted   dagger   or   some   blunt   instrument   a   carved   stone   idol
Or ,    of   course ,    I   said ,    there's   poison   but   that's   always   so   technical . 
Or   a   revolver   shot   echoing   in   the   night . 
Then   there   must   be   a   beautiful   girl   or   two
With   auburn   hair ,    murmured   my   friend . 
One   of   the   beautiful   girls ,    of   course ,    must   be   unjustly   suspected   and   there's   some   misunderstanding   between   her   and   the   young   man . 
And   then ,    of   course ,    there   must   be   some   other   suspects   an   older   woman   dark ,    dangerous   type   and   some   friend   or   rival   of   the   dead   man's   and   a   quiet   secretary   dark   horse   and   a   hearty   man   with   a   bluff   manner   and   a   couple   of   discharged   servants   or   gamekeepers   or   somethings   and   a   damn   fool   of   a   detective   rather   like   Japp   and   well   that's   about   all . 
That   is   your   idea   of   the   cream ,    eh ? 
I   gather   you   don't   agree . 
Poirot   looked   at   me   sadly . 
You   have   made   there   a   very   pretty sum   of   nearly   all   the   detective   stories   that   have   ever   been   written . 
Poirot   closed   his   eyes   and   leaned   back   in   his   chair . 
His   voice   came   purringly   from   between   his   lips . 
A   crime   with   no   complications . 
A   crime   of   quiet   domestic   life   very   unimpassioned   very   intime . 
How   can   a   crime   be   intime ? 
Supposing ,    murmured   Poirot ,    that   four   people   sit   down   to   play   bridge   and   one ,    the   odd   man   out ,    sits   in   a   chair   by   the   fire . 
At   the   end   of   the   evening   the   man   by   the   fire   is   found   dead . 
One   of   the   four ,    while   he   is   dummy ,    has   gone   over   and   killed   him ,    and   intent   on   the   play   of   the   hand ,    the   other   three   have   not   noticed . 
Ah ,    there   would   be   a   crime   for   you ! 
Which   of   the   four   was   it ? 
I   can't   see   any   excitement   in   that ! 
Poirot   threw   me   a   glance   of   reproof . 
No ,    because   there   are   no   curiously   twisted   daggers ,    no   blackmail ,    no   emerald   that   is   the   stolen   eye   of   a   god ,    no   untraceable   Eastern   poisons . 
You   have   the   melodramatic   soul ,    Hastings . 
You   would   like ,    not   one   murder ,    but   a   series   of   murders . 
I   admit ,    I   said ,    that   a   second   murder   in   a   book   often   cheers   things   up . 
If   the   murder   happens   in   the   first   chapter ,    and   you   have   to   follow   up   everybody's   alibi   until   the   last   page   but   one   well ,    it   does   get   a   bit   tedious . 
The   telephone   rang   and   Poirot   rose   to   answer . 
Yes ,    it   is   Hercule   Poirot   speaking . 
He   listened   for   a   minute   or   two   and   then   I   saw   his   face   change . 
His   own   side   of   the   conversation   was   short   and   disjointed . 
But   yes ,    we   will   come    . 
It   may   be   as   you   say    . 
Yes ,    I   will   bring   it . 
He   replaced   the   receiver   and   came   across   the   room   to   me . 
That   was   Japp   speaking ,    Hastings . 
He   had   just   got   back   to   the   Yard . 
There   was   a   message   from   Andover    . 
An   old   woman   of   the   name   of   Ascher   who   keeps   a   little   tobacco   and   newspaper   shop   has   been   found   murdered . 
I   think   I   felt   ever   so   slightly   damped . 
My   interest ,    quickened   by   the   sound   of   Andover ,    suffered   a   faint   check . 
I   had   expected   something   fantastic   out   of   the   way ! 
The   murder   of   an   old   woman   who   kept   a   little   tobacco   shop   seemed ,    somehow ,    sordid   and   uninteresting . 
Poirot   continued   in   the   same   slow ,    grave   voice : 
The   Andover   police   believe   they   can   put   their   hand   on   the   man   who   did   it
I   felt   a   second   throb   of   disappointment . 
It   seems   the   woman   was   on   bad   terms   with   her   husband . 
He   drinks   and   is   by   way   of   being   rather   a   nasty   customer . 
 He's   threatened   to   take   her   life   more   than   once . 
Nevertheless ,    continued   Poirot ,    in   view   of   what   has   happened ,    the   police   there   would   like   to   have   another   look   at   the   anonymous   letter   I   received . 
I   have   said   that   you   and   I   will   go   down   to   Andover   at   once . 
My   spirits   revived   a   little . 
After   all ,    sordid   as   this   crime   seemed   to   be ,    it   was   a   crime ,    and   it   was   a   long   time   since   I   had   had   any   association   with   crime   and   criminals . 
I   hardly   listened   to   the   next   words   Poirot   said . 
But   they   were   to   come   back   to   me   with   significance   later . 
This   is   the   beginning ,    said   Hercule   Poirot . 
We   were   received   at   Andover   by   Inspector   Glen ,    a   tall   fair-haired   man   with   a   pleasant   smile . 
For   the   sake   of   conciseness   I   think   I   had   better   give   a   brief sum   of   the   bare   facts   of   the   case . 
The   crime   was   discovered   by   Police   Constable   Dover   at   1   am   on   the   morning   of   the   22nd . 
When   on   his   round   he   tried   the   door   of   the   shop   and   found   it   unfastened ,    he   entered   and   at   first   thought   the   place   was   empty . 
Directing   his   torch   over   the   counter ,    however ,    he   caught   sight   of   the   huddled-up   body   of   the   old   woman . 
When   the   police   surgeon   arrived   on   the   spot   it   was   elicited   that   the   woman   had   been   struck   down   by   a   heavy   blow   on   the   back   of   the   head ,    probably   while   she   was   reaching   down   a   packet   of   cigarettes   from   the   shelf   behind   the   counter . 
Death   must   have   occurred   about   nine   to   seven   hours   previously . 
But   we've   been   able   to   get   it   down   a   bit   nearer   than   that ,    explained   the   inspector . 
 We've   found   a   man   who   went   in   and   bought   some   tobacco   at   5 : 30 . 
And   a   second   man   went   in   and   found   the   shop   empty ,    as   he   thought ,    at   five   minutes   past   six . 
That   puts   the   time   at   between   5 : 30   and   6 : 5 . 
So   far   I   haven't   been   able   to   find   anyone   who   saw   this   man   Ascher   in   the   neighbourhood ,    but ,    of   course ,    it's   early   as   yet . 
He   was   in   the   Three   Crowns   at   nine clock   pretty   far   gone   in   drink . 
When   we   get   hold   of   him   he'll   be   detained   on   suspicion . 
Not   a   very   desirable   character ,    inspector ? 
He   didn't   live   with   his   wife ? 
No ,    they   separated   some   years   ago . 
He   was   a   waiter   at   one   time ,    but   he   took   to   drink   and   gradually   became   unemployable . 
His   wife   went   into   service   for   a   bit . 
Her   last   place   was   as   cook-housekeeper   to   an   old   lady ,    Miss   Rose . 
She   allowed   her   husband   so   much   out   of   her   wages   to   keep   himself ,    but   he   was   always   getting   drunk   and   coming   round   and   making   scenes   at   the   places   where   she   was   employed . 
 That's   why   she   took   the   post   with   Miss   Rose   at   The   Grange . 
 It's   three   miles   out   of   Andover ,    dead   in   the   country . 
He   couldn't   get   at   her   there   so   well . 
When   Miss   Rose   died ,    she   left   Mrs .    Ascher   a   small   legacy ,    and   the   woman   started   this   tobacco   and   newsagent   business   quite   a   tiny   place   just   cheap   cigarettes   and   a   few   newspapers   that   sort   of   thing . 
She   just   about   managed   to   keep   going . 
Ascher   used   to   come   round   and   abuse   her   now   and   again   and   she   used   to   give   him   a   bit   to   get   rid   of   him . 
She   allowed   him   fifteen   shillings   a   week   regular . 
 She's   in   service   near   Overton . 
Very   superior ,    steady   young   woman . 
And   you   say   this   man   Ascher   used   to   threaten   his   wife ? 
He   was   a   terror   when   he   was   in   drink   cursing   and   swearing   that   he'd   bash   her   head   in . 
She   had   a   hard   time ,    did   Mrs .    Ascher . 
What   age   of   woman   was   she ? 
Close   on   sixty   respectable   and   hard-working . 
It   is   your   opinion ,    inspector ,    that   this   man   Ascher   committed   the   crime ? 
 It's   a   bit   early   to   say   that ,    Mr .    Poirot ,    but   I'd   like   to   hear   Franz   Ascher's   own   account   of   how   he   spent   yesterday   evening . 
If   he   can   give   a   satisfactory   account   of   himself ,    well   and   good   if   not
His   pause   was   a   pregnant   one . 
Nothing   was   missing   from   the   shop ? 
Money   in   the   till   quite   undisturbed . 
You   think   that   this   man   Ascher   came   into   the   shop   drunk ,    started   abusing   his   wife   and   finally   struck   her   down ? 
It   seems   the   most   likely   solution . 
But   I   must   confess ,    sir ,    I'd   like   to   have   another   look   at   that   very   odd   letter   you   received . 
I   was   wondering   if   it   was   just   possible   that   it   came   from   this   man   Ascher . 
Poirot   handed   over   the   letter   and   the   inspector   read   it   with   a   frown . 
It   doesn't   read   like   Ascher ,    he   said   at   last . 
I   doubt   if   Ascher   would   use   the   term   our   British   police   not   unless   he   was   trying   to   be   extra   cunning   and   I   doubt   if   he's   got   the   wits   for   that . 
Then   the   man's   a   wreck   all   to   pieces . 
His   hand's   too   shaky   to   print   letters   clearly   like   this . 
 It's   good   quality   notepaper   and   ink ,    too . 
 It's   odd   that   the   letter   should   mention   the   21st   of   the   month . 
Of   course   it   might   be   coincidence . 
But   I   don't   like   this   kind   of   coincidence ,    Mr .    Poirot . 
 It's   a   bit   too   pat . 
He   was   silent   for   a   minute   or   two   a   frown   creasing   his   forehead . 
A C .    Who   the   devil   could B be ? 
 We'll   see   if   Mary   Drower    ( that's   the   niece )    can   give   us   any   help . 
But   for   this   letter   I'd   have   put   my   money   on   Franz   Ascher   for   a   certainty . 
Do   you   know   anything   of   Mrs .    Ascher's   past ? 
Went   into   service   as   a   girl   up   in   London   that's   where   she   met   Ascher   and   married   him . 
Things   must   have   been   difficult   for   them   during   the   war . 
She   actually   left   him   for   good   in   1922 . 
They   were   in   London   then . 
She   came   back   here   to   get   away   from   him ,    but   he   got   wind   of   where   she   was   and   followed   her   down   here ,    pestering   her   for   money constable   came   in . 
Yes ,    Briggs ,    what   is   it ? 
 It's   the   man   Ascher ,    sir . 
Hiding   in   a   truck   on   the   railway   siding . 
He   was ,    was   he ? 
Franz   Ascher   was   indeed   a   miserable   and   unprepossessing   specimen . 
He   was   blubbering   and   cringing   and   blustering   alternately . 
His   bleary   eyes   moved   shiftily   from   one   face   to   another . 
What   do   you   want   with   me ? 
I   have   not   done   nothing . 
It   is   a   shame   and   a   scandal   to   bring   me   here ! 
You   are   swine ,    how   dare   you ? 
No ,    no ,    I   do   not   mean   that   you   would   not   hurt   a   poor   old   man   not   be   hard   on   him . 
Everyone   is   hard   on   poor   old   Franz . 
Mr .    Ascher   started   to   weep . 
 That'll   do ,    Ascher ,    said   the   inspector . 
 I'm   not   charging   you   with   anything   yet . 
And   you're   not   bound   to   make   a   statement   unless   you   like . 
On   the   other   hand ,    if   you're   not   concerned   in   the   murder   of   your   wife
Ascher   interrupted   him   his   voice   rising   to   a   scream . 
I   did   not   kill   her ! 
I   did   not   kill   her ! 
You   are   god-damned   English   pigs   all   against   me . 
I   never   kill   her   never . 
You   threatened   to   often   enough ,    Ascher . 
That   was   just   a   joke   a   good   joke   between   me   and   Alice . 
Do   you   care   to   say   where   you   were   yesterday   evening ,    Ascher ? 
Yes ,    yes   I   tell   you   everything . 
I   did   not   go   near   Alice . 
I   am   with   friends   good   friends . 
We   are   at   the   Seven   Stars   and   then   we   are   at   the   Red   Dog
He   hurried   on ,    his   words   stumbling   over   each   other . 
Dick   Willows   he   was   with   me   and   old   Curdie   and   George   and   Platt   and   lots   of   the   boys . 
I   tell   you   I   do   not   never   go   near   Alice . 
Ach   Gott ,    it   is   the   truth   I   am   telling   you . 
His   voice   rose   to   a   scream . 
The   inspector   nodded   to   his   underling . 
I   don't   know   what   to   think ,    he   said   as   the   unpleasant ,    shaking   old   man   with   the   malevolent ,    mouthing   jaw   was   removed . 
If   it   wasn't   for   the   letter ,    I'd   say   he   did   it . 
What   about   the   men   he   mentions ? 
A   bad   crowd   not   one   of   them   would   stick   at   perjury . 
 I've   no   doubt   he   was   with   them   the   greater   part   of   the   evening . 
A   lot   depends   on   whether   any   one   saw   him   near   the   shop   between   half   past   five   and   six . 
Poirot   shook   his   head   thoughtfully . 
You   are   sure   nothing   was   taken   from   the   shop ? 
The   inspector   shrugged   his   shoulders . 
A   packet   or   two   of   cigarettes   might   have   been   taken   but   you'd   hardly   commit   murder   for   that . 
And   there   was   nothing   how   shall   I   put   it   introduced   into   the   shop ? 
Nothing   that   was   odd   there   incongruous ? 
There   was   a   railway   guide ,    said   the   inspector . 
It   was   open   and   turned   face   downward   on   the   counter . 
Looked   as   though   someone   had   been   looking   up   the   trains   from   Andover . 
Either   the   old   woman   or   a   customer . 
Did   she   sell   that   type   of   thing ? 
The   inspector   shook   his   head . 
This   was   a   big   one   kind   of   thing   only   Smith's   or   a   big   stationer   would   keep . 
A   light   came   into   Poirot's   eyes . 
A   light   came   into   the   inspector's   eye   also . 
A   railway   guide ,    you   say . 
A   Bradshaw   or   an B ? 
By   the   lord ,    he   said . 
I   think   that   I   can   date   my   interest   in   the   case   from   that   first   mention   of   the B railway   guide . 
Up   till   then   I   had   not   been   able   to   raise   much   enthusiasm . 
This   sordid   murder   of   an   old   woman   in   a   back-street   shop   was   so   like   the   usual   type   of   crime   reported   in   the   newspapers   that   it   failed   to   strike   a   significant   note . 
In   my   own   mind   I   had   put   down   the   anonymous   letter   with   its   mention   of   the   21st   as   a   mere   coincidence . 
Mrs .    Ascher ,    I   felt   reasonably   sure ,    had   been   the   victim   of   her   drunken   brute   of   a   husband . 
But   now   the   mention   of   the   railway   guide    ( so   familiarly   known   by   its   abbreviation   of B ,    listing   as   it   did   all   railway   stations   in   their   alphabetical   order )    sent   a   quiver   of   excitement   through   me . 
Surely   surely   this   could   not   be   a   second   coincidence ? 
The   sordid   crime   took   on   a   new   aspect . 
Who   was   the   mysterious   individual   who   had   killed   Mrs .    Ascher   and   left   an B railway   guide   behind   him ? 
When   we   left   the   police   station   our   first   visit   was   to   the   mortuary   to   see   the   body   of   the   dead   woman . 
A   strange   feeling   came   over   me   as   I   gazed   down   on   that   wrinkled   old   face   with   the   scanty   grey   hair   drawn   back   tightly   from   the   temples . 
It   looked   so   peaceful ,    so   incredibly   remote   from   violence . 
Never   knew   who   or   what   struck   her ,    observed   the   sergeant . 
 That's   what   Dr .    Kerr   says . 
 I'm   glad   it   was   that   way ,    poor   old   soul . 
A   decent   woman   she   was . 
She   must   have   been   beautiful   once ,    said   Poirot . 
But   yes ,    look   at   the   line   of   the   jaw ,    the   bones ,    the   moulding   of   the   head . 
He   sighed   as   he   replaced   the   sheet   and   we   left   the   mortuary . 
Our   next   move   was   a   brief   interview   with   the   police   surgeon . 
Dr .    Kerr   was   a   competent-looking   middle-aged   man . 
He   spoke   briskly   and   with   decision . 
The   weapon   wasn't   found ,    he   said . 
Impossible   to   say   what   it   may   have   been . 
A   weighted   stick ,    a   club ,    a   form   of   sandbag   any   of   those   would   fit   the   case . 
Would   much   force   be   needed   to   strike   such   a   blow ? 
The   doctor   shot   a   keen   glance   at   Poirot . 
Meaning ,    I   suppose ,    could   a   shaky   old   man   of   seventy   do   it ? 
Oh ,    yes ,    it's   perfectly   possible   given   sufficient   weight   in   the   head   of   the   weapon ,    quite   a   feeble   person   could   achieve   the   desired   result . 
Then   the   murderer   could   just   as   well   be   a   woman   as   a   man ? 
The   suggestion   took   the   doctor   somewhat   aback . 
Well ,    I   confess   it   never   occurred   to   me   to   connect   a   woman   with   this   type   of   crime . 
But   of   course   it's   possible   perfectly   possible . 
Only ,    psychologically   speaking ,    I   shouldn't   say   this   was   a   woman's   crime . 
Poirot   nodded   his   head   in   eager   agreement . 
On   the   face   of   it ,    highly   improbable . 
But   one   must   take   all   possibilities   into   account . 
The   body   was   lying   how ? 
The   doctor   gave   us   a   careful   description   of   the   position   of   the   victim . 
It   was   his   opinion   that   she   had   been   standing   with   her   back   to   the   counter    ( and   therefore   to   her   assailant )    when   the   blow   had   been   struck . 
She   had   slipped   down   in   a   heap   behind   the   counter   quite   out   of   sight   of   anyone   entering   the   shop   casually . 
When   we   had   thanked   Dr .    Kerr   and   taken   our   leave ,    Poirot   said : 
You   perceive ,    Hastings ,    that   we   have   already   one   further   point   in   favour   of   Ascher's   innocence . 
If   he   had   been   abusing   his   wife   and   threatening   her ,    she   would   have   been   facing   him   over   the   counter . 
Instead   she   had   her   back   to   her   assailant   obviously   she   is   reaching   down   tobacco   or   cigarettes   for   a   customer . 
I   gave   a   little   shiver . 
Poirot   shook   his   head   gravely . 
Pauvre   femme ,    he   murmured . 
Then   he   glanced   at   his   watch . 
Overton   is   not ,    I   think ,    many   miles   from   here . 
Shall   we   run   over   there   and   have   an   interview   with   the   niece   of   the   dead   woman ? 
Surely   you   will   go   first   to   the   shop   where   the   crime   took   place ? 
I   prefer   to   do   that   later . 
He   did   not   explain   further ,    and   a   few   minutes   later   we   were   driving   on   the   London   road   in   the   direction   of   Overton . 
The   address   which   the   inspector   had   given   us   was   that   of   a   good-sized   house   about   a   mile   on   the   London   side   of   the   village . 
Our   ring   at   the   bell   was   answered   by   a   pretty   dark-haired   girl   whose   eyes   were   red   with   recent   weeping . 
I   think   it   is   you   who   are   Miss   Mary   Drower ,    the   parlour-maid   here ? 
Yes ,    sir ,    that's   right . 
Then   perhaps   I   can   talk   to   you   for   a   few   minutes   if   your   mistress   will   not   object . 
It   is   about   your   aunt ,    Mrs .    Ascher . 
The   mistress   is   out ,    sir . 
She   wouldn't   mind ,    I'm   sure ,    if   you   came   in   here . 
She   opened   the   door   of   a   small   morning   room . 
We   entered   and   Poirot ,    seating   himself   on   a   chair   by   the   window ,    looked   up   keenly   into   the   girl's   face . 
You   have   heard   of   your   aunt's   death ,    of   course ? 
The   girl   nodded ,    tears   coming   once   more   into   her   eyes . 
Such   a   hard   life   as   she'd   had ,    too . 
And   now   this   it's   too   awful . 
The   police   did   not   suggest   your   returning   to   Andover ? 
They   said   I   must   come   to   the   inquest   that's   on   Monday ,    sir . 
But   I've   nowhere   to   go   there   I   couldn't   fancy   being   over   the   shop   now   and   what   with   the   housemaid   being   away ,    I   didn't   want   to   put   the   mistress   out   more   than   may   be . 
You   were   fond   of   your   aunt ,    Mary ? 
Indeed   I   was ,    sir . 
Very   good   she's   been   to   me   always ,    auntie   has . 
I   went   to   her   in   London   when   I   was   eleven   years   old ,    after   mother   died . 
I   started   in   service   when   I   was   sixteen ,    but   I   usually   went   along   to   auntie's   on   my   day   out . 
A   lot   of   trouble   she   went   through   with   that   German   fellow . 
My   old   devil ,    she   used   to   call   him . 
 He'd   never   let   her   be   in   peace   anywhere . 
Sponging ,    cadging   old   beast . 
The   girl   spoke   with   vehemence . 
Your   aunt   never   thought   of   freeing   herself   by   legal   means   from   this   persecution ? 
Well ,    you   see ,    he   was   her   husband ,    sir ,    you   couldn't   get   away   from   that . 
The   girl   spoke   simply   but   with   finality . 
Tell   me ,    Mary ,    he   threatened   her ,    did   he   not ? 
Oh ,    yes ,    sir ,    it   was   awful   the   things   he   used   to   say . 
That   he'd   cut   her   throat ,    and   such   like . 
Cursing   and   swearing   too   both   in   German   and   in   English . 
And   yet   auntie   says   he   was   a   fine   handsome   figure   of   a   man   when   she   married   him . 
 It's   dreadful   to   think ,    sir ,    what   people   come   to . 
And   so ,    I   suppose ,    Mary ,    having   actually   heard   these   threats ,    you   were   not   so   very   surprised   when   you   learnt   what   had   happened ? 
Oh ,    but   I   was ,    sir . 
You   see ,    sir ,    I   never   thought   for   one   moment   that   he   meant   it . 
I   thought   it   was   just   nasty   talk   and   nothing   more   to   it . 
And   it   isn't   as   though   auntie   was   afraid   of   him . 
Why ,    I've   seen   him   slink   away   like   a   dog   with   its   tail   between   its   legs   when   she   turned   on   him . 
He   was   afraid   of   her   if   you   like . 
And   yet   she   gave   him   money ? 
Well ,    he   was   her   husband ,    you   see ,    sir . 
Yes ,    so   you   said   before . 
He   paused   for   a   minute   or   two . 
Then   he   said :    Suppose   that ,    after   all ,    he   did   not   kill   her . 
That   is   what   I   said . 
Supposing   someone   else   killed   her   Have   you   any   idea   who   that   someone   else   could   be ? 
She   stared   at   him   with   even   more   amazement . 
 I've   no   idea ,    sir . 
It   doesn't   seem   likely ,    though ,    does   it ? 
There   was   no   one   your   aunt   was   afraid   of ? 
Auntie   wasn't   afraid   of   people . 
 She'd   a   sharp   tongue   and   she'd   stand   up   to   anybody . 
You   never   heard   her   mention   anyone   who   had   a   grudge   against   her ? 
No ,    indeed ,    sir . 
Did   she   ever   get   anonymous   letters ? 
What   kind   of   letters   did   you   say ,    sir ? 
Letters   that   weren't   signed   or   only   signed   by   something   like B .    He   watched   her   narrowly ,    but   plainly   she   was   at   a   loss . 
She   shook   her   head   wonderingly . 
Has   your   aunt   any   relations   except   you ? 
One   of   ten   she   was ,    but   only   three   lived   to   grow   up . 
My   Uncle   Tom   was   killed   in   the   war ,    and   my   Uncle   Harry   went   to   South   America   and   no   one's   heard   of   him   since ,    and   mother's   dead ,    of   course ,    so   there's   only   me . 
Had   your   aunt   any   savings ? 
 She'd   a   little   in   the   Savings   Bank ,    sir   enough   to   bury   her   proper ,    that's   what   she   always   said . 
Otherwise   she   didn't   more   than   just   make   ends   meet   what   with   her   old   devil   and   all . 
He   said   perhaps   more   to   himself   than   to   her : 
At   present   one   is   in   the   dark   there   is   no   direction   if   things   get   clearer   He   got   up . 
If   I   want   you   at   any   time ,    Mary ,    I   will   write   to   you   here . 
As   a   matter   of   fact ,    sir ,    I'm   giving   in   my   notice . 
I   don't   like   the   country . 
I   stayed   here   because   I   fancied   it   was   a   comfort   to   auntie   to   have   me   near   by . 
But   now   again   the   tears   rose   in   her   eyes   there's   no   reason   I   should   stay ,    and   so   I'll   go   back   to   London . 
 It's   gayer   for   a   girl   there . 
I   wish   that ,    when   you   do   go ,    you   would   give   me   your   address . 
He   handed   it   to   her . 
She   looked   at   it   with   a   puzzled   frown . 
Then   you're   not   anything   to   do   with   the   police ,    sir ? 
I   am   a   private   detective . 
She   stood   there   looking   at   him   for   some   moments   in   silence . 
Is   there   anything   queer   going   on ,    sir ? 
There   is   something   queer   going   on . 
Later   you   may   be   able   to   help   me . 
I   I'll   do   anything ,    sir . 
It   it   wasn't   right ,    sir ,    auntie   being   killed . 
A   strange   way   of   putting   it   but   deeply   moving . 
A   few   seconds   later   we   were   driving   back   to   Andover . 
The   street   in   which   the   tragedy   had   occurred   was   a   turning   off   the   main   street . 
Mrs .    Ascher's   shop   was   situated   about   halfway   down   it   on   the   right-hand   side . 
As   we   turned   into   the   street   Poirot   glanced   at   his   watch   and   I   realized   why   he   had   delayed   his   visit   to   the   scene   of   the   crime   until   now . 
It   was   just   on   half   past   five . 
He   had   wished   to   reproduce   yesterday's   atmosphere   as   closely   as   possible . 
But   if   that   had   been   his   purpose   it   was   defeated . 
Certainly   at   this   moment   the   road   bore   very   little   likeness   to   its   appearance   on   the   previous   evening . 
There   were   a   certain   number   of   small   shops   interspersed   between   private   houses   of   the   poorer   class . 
I   judged   that   ordinarily   there   would   be   a   fair   number   of   people   passing   up   and   down   mostly   people   of   the   poorer   classes ,    with   a   good   sprinkling   of   children   playing   on   the   pavements   and   in   the   road . 
At   this   moment   there   was   a   solid   mass   of   people   standing   staring   at   one   particular   house   or   shop   and   it   took   little   perspicuity   to   guess   which   that   was . 
What   we   saw   was   a   mass   of   average   human   beings   looking   with   intense   interest   at   the   spot   where   another   human   being   had   been   done   to   death . 
As   we   drew   nearer   this   proved   to   be   indeed   the   case . 
In   front   of   a   small   dingy-looking   shop   with   its   shutters   now   closed   stood   a   harassed-looking   young   policeman   who   was   stolidly   adjuring   the   crowd   to   pass   along   there . 
By   the   help   of   a   colleague ,    displacements   took   place   a   certain   number   of   people   grudgingly   sighed   and   betook   themselves   to   their   ordinary   vocations ,    and   almost   immediately   other   persons   came   along   and   took   up   their   stand   to   gaze   their   fill   on   the   spot   where   murder   had   been   committed . 
Poirot   stopped   a   little   distance   from   the   main   body   of   the   crowd . 
From   where   we   stood   the   legend   painted   over   the   door   could   be   read   plainly   enough . 
Poirot   repeated   it   under   his   breath . 
Oui , est   peut-   tre   l
Come ,    let   us   go   inside ,    Hastings . 
I   was   only   too   ready . 
We   made   our   way   through   the   crowd   and   accosted   the   young   policeman . 
Poirot   produced   the   credentials   which   the   inspector   had   given   him . 
The   constable   nodded ,    and   unlocked   the   door   to   let   us   pass   within . 
We   did   so   and   entered   to   the   intense   interest   of   the   lookers-on . 
Inside   it   was   very   dark   owing   to   the   shutters   being   closed . 
The   constable   found   and   switched   on   the   electric   light . 
The   bulb   was   a   low-powered   one   so   that   the   interior   was   still   dimly   lit . 
A   few   cheap   magazines   strewn   about ,    and   yesterday's   newspapers   all   with   a   day's   dust   on   them . 
Behind   the   counter   a   row   of   shelves   reaching   to   the   ceiling   and   packed   with   tobacco   and   packets   of   cigarettes . 
There   were   also   a   couple   of   jars   of   peppermint   humbugs   and   barley   sugar . 
A   commonplace   little   shop ,    one   of   many   thousand   such   others . 
The   constable   in   his   slow   Hampshire   voice   was   explaining   the   mise   en   sc   ne . 
Down   in   a   heap   behind   the   counter ,    that's   where   she   was . 
Doctor   says   as   how   she   never   knew   what   hit   her . 
Must   have   been   reaching   up   to   one   of   the   shelves . 
There   was   nothing   in   her   hand ? 
No ,    sir ,    but   there   was   a   packet   of   Player's   down   beside   her . 
His   eyes   swept   round   the   small   space   observing   noting . 
And   the   railway   guide   was   where ? 
The   constable   pointed   out   the   spot   on   the   counter . 
It   was   open   at   the   right   page   for   Andover   and   lying   face   down . 
Seems   as   though   he   must   have   been   looking   up   the   trains   to   London . 
If   so ,    it   mightn't   have   been   an   Andover   man   at   all . 
But   then ,    of   course ,    the   railway   guide   might   have   belonged   to   someone   else   what   had   nothing   to   do   with   the   murder   at   all ,    but   just   forgot   it   here . 
The   man   shook   his   head . 
The   whole   place   was   examined   straight   away ,    sir . 
Not   on   the   counter   itself ? 
A   long   sight   too   many ,    sir ! 
All   confused   and   jumbled   up . 
Any   of   Ascher's   among   them ? 
Too   soon   to   say ,    sir . 
Poirot   nodded ,    then   asked   if   the   dead   woman   lived   over   the   shop . 
Yes ,    sir ,    you   go   through   that   door   at   the   back ,    sir . 
 You'll   excuse   me   not   coming   with   you ,    but   I've   got   to   stay
Poirot   passed   through   the   door   in   question   and   I   followed   him . 
Behind   the   shop   was   a   microscopic   sort   of   parlour   and   kitchen   combined   it   was   neat   and   clean   but   very   dreary   looking   and   scantily   furnished . 
On   the   mantelpiece   were   a   few   photographs . 
I   went   up   and   looked   at   them   and   Poirot   joined   me . 
The   photographs   were   three   in   all . 
One   was   a   cheap   portrait   of   the   girl   we   had   been   with   that   afternoon ,    Mary   Drower . 
She   was   obviously   wearing   her   best   clothes   and   had   the   self-conscious ,    wooden   smile   on   her   face   that   so   often   disfigures   the   expression   in   posed   photography ,    and   makes   a   snapshot   preferable . 
The   second   was   a   more   expensive   type   of   picture   an   artistically   blurred   reproduction   of   an   elderly   woman   with   white   hair . 
A   high   fur   collar   stood   up   round   the   neck . 
I   guessed   that   this   was   probably   the   Miss   Rose   who   had   left   Mrs .    Ascher   the   small   legacy   which   had   enabled   her   to   start   in   business . 
The   third   photograph   was   a   very   old   one ,    now   faded   and   yellow . 
It   represented   a   young   man   and   woman   in   somewhat   old-fashioned   clothes   standing   arm   in   arm . 
The   man   had   a   buttonhole   and   there   was   an   air   of   bygone   festivity   about   the   whole   pose . 
Probably   a   wedding   picture ,    said   Poirot . 
Regard ,    Hastings ,    did   I   not   tell   you   that   she   had   been   a   beautiful   woman ? 
Disfigured   by   old-fashioned   hairdressing   and   weird   clothes ,    there   was   no   disguising   the   handsomeness   of   the   girl   in   the   picture   with   her   clear-cut   features   and   spirited   bearing . 
I   looked   closely   at   the   second   figure . 
It   was   almost   impossible   to   recognise   the   seedy   Ascher   in   this   smart   young   man   with   the   military   bearing . 
I   recalled   the   leering   drunken   old   man ,    and   the   toil-worn   face   of   the   dead   woman   and   I   shivered   a   little   at   the   remorselessness   of   time    . 
From   the   parlour   a   stair   led   to   two   upstairs   rooms . 
One   was   empty   and   unfurnished ,    the   other   had   evidently   been   the   dead   woman's   bedroom . 
After   being   searched   by   the   police   it   had   been   left   as   it   was . 
A   couple   of   old   worn   blankets   on   the   bed   a   little   stock   of   well-darned   underwear   in   a   drawer   cookery   recipes   in   another   a   paper-backed   novel   entitled   The   Green   Oasis   a   pair   of   new   stockings   pathetic   in   their   cheap   shininess   a   couple   of   china   ornaments   a   Dresden   shepherd   much   broken ,    and   a   blue   and   yellow   spotted   dog   a   black   raincoat   and   a   woolly   jumper   hanging   on   pegs   such   were   the   worldly   possessions   of   the   late   Alice   Ascher . 
If   there   had   been   any   personal   papers ,    the   police   had   taken   them . 
Pauvre   femme ,    murmured   Poirot . 
Come ,    Hastings ,    there   is   nothing   for   us   here . 
When   we   were   once   more   in   the   street ,    he   hesitated   for   a   minute   or   two ,    then   crossed   the   road . 
Almost   exactly   opposite   Mrs .    Ascher's   was   a   greengrocer's   shop   of   the   type   that   has   most   of   its   stock   outside   rather   than   inside . 
In   a   low   voice   Poirot   gave   me   certain   instructions . 
Then   he   himself   entered   the   shop . 
After   waiting   a   minute   or   two   I   followed   him   in . 
He   was   at   the   moment   negotiating   for   a   lettuce . 
I   myself   bought   a   pound   of   strawberries . 
Poirot   was   talking   animatedly   to   the   stout   lady   who   was   serving   him . 
It   was   just   opposite   you ,    was   it   not ,    that   this   murder   occurred ? 
What   a   sensation   it   must   have   caused   you ! 
The   stout   lady   was   obviously   tired   of   talking   about   the   murder . 
She   must   have   had   a   long   day   of   it . 
It   would   be   as   well   if   some   of   that   gaping   crowd   cleared   off . 
What   is   there   to   look   at ,    I'd   like   to   know ? 
It   must   have   been   very   different   last   night ,    said   Poirot . 
Possibly   you   even   observed   the   murderer   enter   the   shop   a   tall ,    fair   man   with   a   beard ,    was   he   not ? 
A   Russian ,    so   I   have   heard . 
The   woman   looked   up   sharply . 
A   Russian   did   it ,    you   say ? 
I   understand   that   the   police   have   arrested   him . 
The   woman   was   excited ,    voluble . 
I   thought   perhaps   you   might   have   noticed   him   last   night ? 
Well ,    I   don't   get   much   chance   of   noticing ,    and   that's   a   fact . 
The   evening's   our   busy   time   and   there's   always   a   fair   few   passing   along   and   getting   home   after   their   work . 
A   tall ,    fair   man   with   a   beard   no ,    I   can't   say   I   saw   anyone   of   that   description   anywhere   about . 
I   broke   in   on   my   cue . 
Excuse   me ,    sir ,    I   said   to   Poirot . 
I   think   you   have   been   misinformed . 
A   short   dark   man   I   was   told . 
An   interested   discussion   intervened   in   which   the   stout   lady ,    her   lank   husband   and   a   hoarse-voiced   shop-boy   all   participated . 
No   less   than   four   short   dark   men   had   been   observed ,    and   the   hoarse   boy   had   seen   a   tall   fair   one ,    but   he   hadn't   got   no   beard ,    he   added   regretfully . 
Finally ,    our   purchases   made ,    we   left   the   establishment ,    leaving   our   falsehoods   uncorrected . 
And   what   was   the   point   of   all   that ,    Poirot ? 
Parbleu ,    I   wanted   to   estimate   the   chances   of   a   stranger   being   noticed   entering   the   shop   opposite . 
Couldn't   you   simply   have   asked   without   all   that   tissue   of   lies ? 
If   I   had   simply   asked ,    as   you   put   it ,    I   should   have   got   no   answer   at   all   to   my   questions . 
You   yourself   are   English   and   yet   you   do   not   seem   to   appreciate   the   quality   of   the   English   reaction   to   a   direct   question . 
It   is   invariably   one   of   suspicion   and   the   natural   result   is   reticence . 
If   I   had   asked   those   people   for   information   they   would   have   shut   up   like   oysters . 
But   by   making   a   statement    ( and   a   somewhat   out   of   the   way   and   preposterous   one )    and   by   your   contradiction   of   it ,    tongues   are   immediately   loosened . 
We   know   also   that   that   particular   time   was   a   busy   time   that   is ,    that   everyone   would   be   intent   on   their   own   concerns   and   that   there   would   be   a   fair   number   of   people   passing   along   the   pavements . 
Our   murderer   chose   his   time   well ,    Hastings . 
He   paused   and   then   added   on   a   deep   note   of   reproach : 
Is   it   that   you   have   not   in   any   degree   the   common   sense ,    Hastings ? 
I   say   to   you :    Make   a   purchase   quelconque   and   you   deliberately   choose   the   strawberries ! 
Already   they   commence   to   creep   through   their   bag   and   endanger   your   good   suit . 
With   some   dismay ,    I   perceived   that   this   was   indeed   the   case . 
I   hastily   presented   the   strawberries   to   a   small   boy   who   seemed   highly   astonished   and   faintly   suspicious . 
Poirot   added   the   lettuce ,    thus   setting   the   seal   on   the   child's   bewilderment . 
He   continued   to   drive   the   moral   home . 
At   a   cheap   greengrocer's   not   strawberries . 
A   strawberry ,    unless   fresh   picked ,    is   bound   to   exude   juice . 
A   banana   some   apples   even   a   cabbage   but   strawberries
It   was   the   first   thing   I   thought   of ,    I   explained   by   way   of   excuse . 
That   is   unworthy   of   your   imagination ,    returned   Poirot   sternly . 
He   paused   on   the   sidewalk . 
The   house   and   shop   on   the   right   of   Mrs .    Ascher's   was   empty . 
A   To   Let   sign   appeared   in   the   windows . 
On   the   other   side   was   a   house   with   somewhat   grimy   muslin   curtains . 
To   this   house   Poirot   betook   himself   and ,    there   being   no   bell ,    executed   a   series   of   sharp   flourishes   with   the   knocker . 
The   door   was   opened   after   some   delay   by   a   very   dirty   child   with   a   nose   that   needed   attention . 
Good   evening ,    said   Poirot . 
It   stared   at   us   with   disfavour   and   deep   suspicion . 
Your   mother ,    said   Poirot . 
This   took   some   twelve   seconds   to   sink   in ,    then   the   child   turned   and ,    bawling   up   the   stairs   Mum ,    you're   wanted ,    retreated   to   some   fastness   in   the   dim   interior . 
A   sharp-faced   woman   looked   over   the   balusters   and   began   to   descend . 
No   good   you   wasting   your   time   she   began ,    but   Poirot   interrupted   her . 
He   took   off   his   hat   and   bowed   magnificently . 
I   am   on   the   staff   of   the   Evening   Flicker . 
I   want   to   persuade   you   to   accept   a   fee   of   five   pounds   and   let   us   have   an   article   on   your   late   neighbour ,    Mrs .    Ascher . 
The   irate   words   arrested   on   her   lips ,    the   woman   came   down   the   stairs   smoothing   her   hair   and   hitching   at   her   skirt . 
Come   inside ,    please   on   the   left   there . 
 Won't   you   sit   down ,    sir . 
The   tiny   room   was   heavily   over-crowded   with   a   massive   pseudo-Jacobean   suite ,    but   we   managed   to   squeeze   ourselves   in   and   on   to   a   hard-seated   sofa . 
You   must   excuse   me ,    the   woman   was   saying . 
I   am   sure   I'm   sorry   I   spoke   so   sharp   just   now ,    but   you'd   hardly   believe   the   worry   one   has   to   put   up   with   fellows   coming   along   selling   this ,    that   and   the   other   vacuum   cleaners ,    stockings ,    lavender   bags   and   such-like   foolery   and   all   so   plausible   and   civil   spoken . 
Got   your   name ,    too ,    pat   they   have . 
 It's   Mrs .    Fowler   this ,    that   and   the   other . 
Seizing   adroitly   on   the   name ,    Poirot   said : 
Well ,    Mrs .    Fowler ,    I   hope   you're   going   to   do   what   I   ask . 
I   don't   know ,    I'm   sure . 
The   five   pounds   hung   alluringly   before   Mrs .    Fowler's   eyes . 
I   knew   Mrs .    Ascher ,    of   course ,    but   as   to   writing   anything . 
No   labour   on   her   part   was   required . 
He   would   elicit   the   facts   from   her   and   the   interview   would   be   written   up . 
Thus   encouraged ,    Mrs .    Fowler   plunged   willingly   into   reminiscence ,    conjecture   and   hearsay . 
Kept   herself   to   herself ,    Mrs .    Ascher   had . 
Not   what   you'd   call   really   friendly ,    but   there ,    she'd   had   a   lot   of   trouble ,    poor   soul ,    everyone   knew   that . 
And   by   rights   Franz   Ascher   ought   to   have   been   locked   up   years   ago . 
Not   that   Mrs .    Ascher   had   been   afraid   of   him   real   tartar   she   could   be   when   roused ! 
Give   as   good   as   she   got   any   day . 
But   there   it   was   the   pitcher   could   go   to   the   well   once   too   often . 
Again   and   again ,    she ,    Mrs .    Fowler ,    had   said   to   her :    One   of   these   days   that   man   will   do   for   you . 
And   he   had   done ,    hadn't   he ? 
And   there   had   she ,    Mrs .    Fowler ,    been   right   next   door   and   never   heard   a   sound . 
In   a   pause   Poirot   managed   to   insert   a   question . 
Had   Mrs .    Ascher   ever   received   any   peculiar   letters   letters   without   a   proper   signature   just   something   like B ? 
Regretfully ,    Mrs .    Fowler   returned   a   negative   answer . 
I   know   the   kind   of   thing   you   mean   anonymous   letters   they   call   them   mostly   full   of   words   you'd   blush   to   say   out   loud . 
Well ,    I   don't   know ,    I'm   sure ,    if   Franz   Ascher   ever   took   to   writing   those . 
Mrs .    Ascher   never   let   on   to   me   if   he   did . 
A   railway   guide ,    an B ? 
No ,    I   never   saw   such   a   thing   about   and   I'm   sure   if   Mrs .    Ascher   had   been   sent   one   I'd   have   heard   about   it . 
I   declare   you   could   have   knocked   me   down   with   a   feather   when   I   heard   about   this   whole   business . 
It   was   my   girl   Edie   what   came   to   me . 
Mum ,    she   says ,    there's   ever   so   many   policemen   next   door .    Gave   me   quite   a   turn ,    it   did . 
Well ,    I   said ,    when   I   heard   about   it ,    it   does   show   that   she   ought   never   to   have   been   alone   in   the   house   that   niece   of   hers   ought   to   have   been   with   her . 
A   man   in   drink   can   be   like   a   ravening   wolf ,    I   said ,    and   in   my   opinion   a   wild   beast   is   neither   more   nor   less   than   what   that   old   devil   of   a   husband   of   hers   is . 
 I've   warned   her ,    I   said ,    many   times   and   now   my   words   have   come   true . 
 He'll   do   for   you ,    I   said . 
And   he   has   done   for   her ! 
You   can't   rightly   estimate   what   a   man   will   do   when   he's   in   drink   and   this   murder's   a   proof   of   it . 
She   wound   up   with   a   deep   gasp . 
Nobody   saw   this   man   Ascher   go   into   the   shop ,    I   believe ? 
Mrs .    Fowler   sniffed   scornfully . 
Naturally   he   wasn't   going   to   show   himself ,    she   said . 
How   Mr .    Ascher   had   got   there   without   showing   himself   she   did   not   deign   to   explain . 
She   agreed   that   there   was   no   back   way   into   the   house   and   that   Ascher   was   quite   well   known   by   sight   in   the   district . 
But   he   didn't   want   to   swing   for   it   and   he   kept   himself   well   hid . 
Poirot   kept   the   conversational   ball   rolling   some   little   time   longer ,    but   when   it   seemed   certain   that   Mrs .    Fowler   had   told   all   that   she   knew   not   once   but   many   times   over ,    he   terminated   the   interview ,    first   paying   out   the   promised   sum . 
Rather   a   dear   five   pounds   worth ,    Poirot ,    I   ventured   to   remark   when   we   were   once   more   in   the   street . 
You   think   she   knows   more   than   she   has   told ? 
My   friend ,    we   are   in   the   peculiar   position   of   not   knowing   what   questions   to   ask . 
We   are   like   little   children   playing   cache-cache   in   the   dark . 
We   stretch   out   our   hands   and   grope   about . 
Mrs .    Fowler   has   told   us   all   that   she   thinks   she   knows   and   has   thrown   in   several   conjectures   for   good   measure ! 
In   the   future ,    however ,    her   evidence   may   be   useful . 
It   is   for   the   future   that   I   have   invested   that   sum   of   five   pounds . 
I   did   not   quite   understand   the   point ,    but   at   this   moment   we   ran   into   Inspector   Glen . 
Inspector   Glen   was   looking   rather   gloomy . 
He   had ,    I   gathered ,    spent   the   afternoon   trying   to   get   a   complete   list   of   persons   who   had   been   noticed   entering   the   tobacco   shop . 
And   nobody   has   seen   anyone ? 
Oh ,    yes ,    they   have . 
Three   tall   men   with   furtive   expressions   four   short   men   with   black   moustaches   two   beards   three   fat   men   all   strangers   and   all ,    if   I'm   to   believe   witnesses ,    with   sinister   expressions ! 
I   wonder   somebody   didn't   see   a   gang   of   masked   men   with   revolvers   while   they   were   about   it ! 
Does   anybody   claim   to   have   seen   the   man   Ascher ? 
And   that's   another   point   in   his   favour . 
 I've   just   told   the   Chief   Constable   that   I   think   this   is   a   job   for   Scotland   Yard . 
I   don't   believe   it's   a   local   crime . 
You   know ,    Monsieur   Poirot ,    it's   a   nasty   business   a   nasty   business   I   don't   like   it    . 
We   had   two   more   interviews   before   returning   to   London . 
The   first   was   with   Mr .    James   Partridge . 
Mr .    Partridge   was   the   last   person   known   to   have   seen   Mrs .    Ascher   alive . 
He   had   made   a   purchase   from   her   at   5 : 30 . 
Mr .    Partridge   was   a   small   man ,    a   bank   clerk   by   profession . 
He   wore   pince-nez ,    was   very   dry   and   spare-looking   and   extremely   precise   in   all   his   utterances . 
He   lived   in   a   small   house   as   neat   and   trim   as   himself . 
Mr   er   Poirot ,    he   said ,    glancing   at   the   card   my   friend   had   handed   to   him . 
What   can   I   do   for   you ,    Mr .    Poirot ? 
I   understand ,    Mr .    Partridge ,    that   you   were   the   last   person   to   see   Mrs .    Ascher   alive . 
Mr .    Partridge   placed   his   fingertips   together   and   looked   at   Poirot   as   though   he   were   a   doubtful   cheque . 
That   is   a   very   debatable   point ,    Mr .    Poirot ,    he   said . 
Many   people   may   have   made   purchases   from   Mrs .    Ascher   after   I   did   so . 
If   so ,    they   have   not   come   forward   to   say   so . 
Some   people ,    Mr .    Poirot ,    have   no   sense   of   public   duty . 
He   looked   at   us   owlishly   through   his   spectacles . 
Exceedingly   true ,    murmured   Poirot . 
You ,    I   understand ,    went   to   the   police   of   your   own   accord ? 
As   soon   as   I   heard   of   the   shocking   occurrence   I   perceived   that   my   statement   might   be   helpful   and   came   forward   accordingly . 
A   very   proper   spirit ,    said   Poirot   solemnly . 
Perhaps   you   will   be   so   kind   as   to   repeat   your   story   to   me . 
I   was   returning   to   this   house   and   at   5 : 30   precisely
Pardon ,    how   was   it   that   you   knew   the   time   so   accurately ? 
Mr .    Partridge   looked   a   little   annoyed   at   being   interrupted . 
I   looked   at   my   watch   and   found   I   was   a   minute   slow . 
That   was   just   before   I   entered   Mrs .    Ascher's   shop . 
Were   you   in   the   habit   of   making   purchases   there ? 
It   was   on   my   way   home . 
About   once   or   twice   a   week   I   was   in   the   habit   of   purchasing   two   ounces   of   John   Cotton   mild . 
Did   you   know   Mrs .    Ascher   at   all ? 
Anything   of   her   circumstances   or   her   history ? 
Beyond   my   purchase   and   an   occasional   remark   as   to   the   state   of   the   weather ,    I   had   never   spoken   to   her . 
Did   you   know   she   had   a   drunken   husband   who   was   in   the   habit   of   threatening   her   life ? 
No ,    I   knew   nothing   whatever   about   her . 
You   knew   her   by   sight ,    however . 
Did   anything   about   her   appearance   strike   you   as   unusual   yesterday   evening ? 
Did   she   appear   flurried   or   put   out   in   any   way ? 
As   far   as   I   noticed ,    she   seemed   exactly   as   usual ,    he   said . 
Thank   you ,    Mr .    Partridge ,    for   answering   these   questions . 
Have   you ,    by   any   chance ,    an B in   the   house ? 
I   want   to   look   up   my   return   train   to   London . 
On   the   shelf   just   behind   you ,    said   Mr .    Partridge . 
On   the   shelf   in   question   were   an B ,    a   Bradshaw ,    the   Stock   Exchange   Year   Book ,    Kelly's   Directory ,    a   Who's   Who   and   a   local   directory . 
Poirot   took   down   the B ,    pretended   to   look   up   a   train ,    then   thanked   Mr .    Partridge   and   took   his   leave . 
Our   next   interview   was   with   Mr .    Albert   Riddell   and   was   of   a   highly   different   character . 
Mr .    Albert   Riddell   was   a   platelayer   and   our   conversation   took   place   to   the   accompaniment   of   the   clattering   of   plates   and   dishes   by   Mr .    Riddell's   obviously   nervous   wife ,    the   growling   of   Mr .    Riddell's   dog   and   the   undisguised   hostility   of   Mr .    Riddell   himself . 
He   was   a   big   clumsy   giant   of   a   man   with   a   broad   face   and   small   suspicious   eyes . 
He   was   in   the   act   of   eating   meat   pie ,    washed   down   by   exceedingly   black   tea . 
He   peered   at   us   angrily   over   the   rim   of   his   cup . 
Told   all   I've   got   to   tell   once ,    haven't   I ? 
What's   it   to   do   with   me ,    anyway ? 
Told   it   to   the   blarsted   police ,    I   ave ,    and   now   I've   got   to   spit   it   all   out   again   to   a   couple   of   blarsted   foreigners . 
Poirot   gave   a   quick ,    amused   glance   in   my   direction   and   then   said : 
In   truth   I   sympathize   with   you ,    but   what   will   you ? 
It   is   a   question   of   murder ,    is   it   not ? 
One   has   to   be   very ,    very   careful . 
Best   tell   the   gentleman   what   he   wants ,    Bert ,    said   the   woman   nervously . 
You   shut   your   blarsted   mouth ,    roared   the   giant . 
You   did   not ,    I   think ,    go   to   the   police   of   your   own   accord . 
Poirot   slipped   the   remark   in   neatly . 
Why   the   hell   should   I ? 
It   were   no   business   of   mine . 
A   matter   of   opinion ,    said   Poirot   indifferently . 
There   has   been   a   murder   the   police   want   to   know   who   has   been   in   the   shop   I   myself   think   it   would   have   what   shall   I   say ?    looked   more   natural   if   you   had   come   forward . 
 I've   got   my   work   to   do . 
 Don't   say   I   shouldn't   have   come   forward   in   my   own   time
But   as   it   was ,    the   police   were   given   your   name   as   that   of   a   person   seen   to   go   into   Mrs .    Ascher's   and   they   had   to   come   to   you . 
Were   they   satisfied   with   your   account ? 
Poirot   merely   shrugged   his   shoulders . 
What   are   you   getting   at ,    mister ? 
Nobody's   got   anything   against   me ? 
Everyone   knows   who   did   the   old   girl   in ,    that of   a   husband   of   hers . 
But   he   was   not   in   the   street   that   evening   and   you   were . 
Trying   to   fasten   it   on   me ,    are   you ? 
Well ,    you   won't   succeed . 
What   reason   had   I   got   to   do   a   thing   like   that ? 
Think   I   wanted   to   pinch   a   tin   of   her   bloody   tobacco ? 
Think   I'm   a   bloody   homicidal   maniac   as   they   call   it ? 
He   rose   threateningly   from   his   seat . 
Bert ,    Bert   don't   say   such   things . 
Calm   yourself ,    monsieur ,    said   Poirot . 
I   demand   only   your   account   of   your   visit . 
That   you   refuse   it   seems   to   me   what   shall   we   say   a   little   odd ? 
Who   said   I   refused   anything ? 
Mr .    Riddell   sank   back   again   into   his   seat . 
It   was   six clock   when   you   entered   the   shop ? 
 That's   right   a   minute   or   two   after ,    as   a   matter   of   fact . 
Wanted   a   packet   of   Gold   Flake . 
It   was   closed ,    then ? 
I   thought   shop   was   shut ,    maybe . 
I   went   in ,    there   wasn't   anyone   about . 
I   hammered   on   the   counter   and   waited   a   bit . 
Nobody   came ,    so   I   went   out   again . 
 That's   all ,    and   you   can   put   it   in   your   pipe   and   smoke   it . 
You   didn't   see   the   body   fallen   down   behind   the   counter ? 
No ,    no   more   would   you   have   done   unless   you   was   looking   for   it ,    maybe . 
Was   there   a   railway   guide   lying   about ? 
Yes ,    there   was   face   downwards . 
It   crossed   my   mind   like   that   the   old   woman   might   have   had   to   go   off   sudden   by   train   and   forgot   to   lock   shop   up . 
Perhaps   you   picked   up   the   railway   guide   or   moved   it   along   the   counter ? 
I   did   just   what   I   said . 
And   you   did   not   see   anyone   leaving   the   shop   before   you   yourself   got   there ? 
 Didn't   see   any   such   thing . 
What   I   say   is ,    why   pitch   on   me    ? 
Nobody   is   pitching   upon   you   yet . 
He   left   the   man   with   his   mouth   open   and   I   followed   him . 
In   the   street   he   consulted   his   watch . 
With   great   haste ,    my   friend ,    we   might   manage   to   catch   the   7 : 2 . 
Let   us   despatch   ourselves   quickly . 
We   were   seated   in   a   first-class   carriage   which   we   had   to   ourselves . 
The   train ,    an   express ,    had   just   drawn   out   of   Andover . 
The   crime ,    said   Poirot ,    was   committed   by   a   man   of   medium   height   with   red   hair   and   a   cast   in   the   left   eye . 
He   limps   slightly   on   the   right   foot   and   has   a   mole   just   below   the   shoulder   blade . 
For   the   moment   I   was   completely   taken   in . 
Then   the   twinkle   in   my   friend's   eye   undeceived   me . 
I   said   again ,    this   time   in   reproach . 
Mon   ami ,    what   will   you ? 
You   fix   upon   me   a   look   of   dog-like   devotion   and   demand   of   me   a   pronouncement   la   Sherlock   Holmes ! 
Now   for   the   truth   I   do   not   know   what   the   murderer   looks   like ,    nor   where   he   lives ,    nor   how   to   set   hands   upon   him . 
If   only   he   had   left   some   clue ,    I   murmured . 
Yes ,    the   clue   it   is   always   the   clue   that   attracts   you . 
Alas   that   he   did   not   smoke   the   cigarette   and   leave   the   ash ,    and   then   step   in   it   with   a   shoe   that   has   nails   of   a   curious   pattern . 
No   he   is   not   so   obliging . 
But   at   least ,    my   friend ,    you   have   the   railway   guide . 
The B ,    that   is   a   clue   for   you ! 
Do   you   think   he   left   it   by   mistake   then ? 
He   left   it   on   purpose . 
The   fingerprints   tell   us   that . 
But   there   weren't   any   on   it . 
That   is   what   I   mean . 
Does   a   man   stroll   about   on   such   an   evening   in   gloves ? 
Such   a   man   would   certainly   have   attracted   attention . 
Therefore   since   there   are   no   fingerprints   on   the B ,    it   must   have   been   carefully   wiped . 
An   innocent   man   would   have   left   prints   a   guilty   man   would   not . 
So   our   murderer   left   it   there   for   a   purpose   but   for   all   that   it   is   none   the   less   a   clue . 
That B was   bought   by   someone   it   was   carried   by   someone   there   is   a   possibility   there . 
You   think   we   may   learn   something   that   way ? 
Frankly ,    Hastings ,    I   am   not   particularly   hopeful . 
This   man ,    this   unknown ,    obviously   prides   himself   on   his   abilities . 
He   is   not   likely   to   blaze   a   trail   that   can   be   followed   straight   away . 
So   that   really   the B isn't   helpful   at   all . 
Not   in   the   sense   you   mean . 
Poirot   did   not   answer   at   once . 
The   answer   to   that   is   yes . 
We   are   confronted   here   by   an   unknown   personage . 
He   is   in   the   dark   and   seeks   to   remain   in   the   dark . 
But   in   the   very   nature   of   things   he   cannot   help   throwing   light   upon   himself . 
In   one   sense   we   know   nothing   about   him   in   another   sense   we   know   already   a   good   deal . 
I   see   his   figure   dimly   taking   shape   a   man   who   prints   clearly   and   well   who   buys   good-quality   paper   who   is   at   great   needs   to   express   his   personality . 
I   see   him   as   a   child   possibly   ignored   and   passed   over   I   see   him   growing   up   with   an   inward   sense   of   inferiority   warring   with   a   sense   of   injustice   I   see   that   inner   urge   to   assert   himself   to   focus   attention   on   himself   ever   becoming   stronger ,    and   events ,    circumstances   crushing   it   down   heaping ,    perhaps ,    more   humiliations   on   him . 
And   inwardly   the   match   is   set   to   the   powder   train    . 
 That's   all   pure   conjecture ,    I   objected . 
It   doesn't   give   you   any   practical   help . 
You   prefer   the   match   end ,    the   cigarette   ash ,    the   nailed   boots ! 
But   at   least   we   can   ask   ourselves   some   practical   questions . 
The   woman's   past   life   seems   simple   enough ,    I   mused . 
The   interviews   with   those   two   men   were   disappointing . 
They   couldn't   tell   us   anything   more   than   we   knew   already . 
To   tell   the   truth ,    I   did   not   expect   much   in   that   line . 
But   we   could   not   neglect   two   possible   candidates   for   the   murder . 
There   is   at   least   a   possibility   that   the   murderer   lives   in   or   near   Andover . 
That   is   a   possible   answer   to   our   question :    Why   Andover ?    Well ,    here   were   two   men   known   to   have   been   in   the   shop   at   the   requisite   time   of   day . 
Either   of   them   might   be   the   murderer . 
And   there   is   nothing   as   yet   to   show   that   one   or   other   of   them   is   not   the   murderer . 
That   great   hulking   brute ,    Riddell ,    perhaps ,    I   admitted . 
Oh ,    I   am   inclined   to   acquit   Riddell   off-hand . 
He   was   nervous ,    blustering ,    obviously   uneasy
A   nature   diametrically   opposed   to   that   which   penned   the B letter . 
Conceit   and   self-confidence   are   the   characteristics   that   we   must   look   for . 
Someone   who   throws   his   weight   about ? 
But   some   people ,    under   a   nervous   and   self-effacing   manner ,    conceal   a   great   deal   of   vanity   and   self-satisfaction . 
You   don't   think   that   little   Mr .    Partridge
He   is   more   le   type . 
One   cannot   say   more   than   that . 
He   acts   as   the   writer   of   the   letter   would   act   goes   at   once   to   the   police   pushes   himself   to   the   fore   enjoys   his   position . 
Personally   I   believe   that   the   murderer   came   from   outside   Andover ,    but   we   must   neglect   no   avenue   of   research . 
And   although   I   say   he   all   the   time ,    we   must   not   exclude   the   possibility   of   a   woman   being   concerned . 
The   method   of   attack   is   that   of   a   man ,    I   agree . 
But   anonymous   letters   are   written   by   women   rather   than   by   men . 
We   must   bear   that   in   mind . 
I   was   silent   for   a   few   minutes ,    then   I   said : 
What   do   we   do   next ? 
My   energetic   Hastings ,    Poirot   said   and   smiled   at   me . 
No ,    but   what   do   we   do ? 
My   disappointment   rang   out   clearly . 
What   would   you   have   me   do ? 
Turning   the   matter   over   in   my   mind   I   found   it   difficult   to   give   an   answer . 
Nevertheless   I   felt   convinced   that   something   ought   to   be   done   and   that   we   should   not   allow   the   grass   to   grow   under   our   feet . 
There   is   the B and   the   notepaper   and   envelope
Naturally   everything   is   being   done   in   that   line . 
The   police   have   all   the   means   at   their   disposal   for   that   kind   of   inquiry . 
If   anything   is   to   be   discovered   on   those   lines   have   no   fear   but   that   they   will   discover   it . 
With   that   I   was   forced   to   rest   content . 
In   the   days   that   followed   I   found   Poirot   curiously   disinclined   to   discuss   the   case . 
When   I   tried   to   reopen   the   subject   he   waved   it   aside   with   an   impatient   hand . 
In   my   own   mind   I   was   afraid   that   I   fathomed   his   motive . 
Over   the   murder   of   Mrs .    Ascher ,    Poirot   had   sustained   a   defeat . 
A C   had   challenged   him   and B had   won . 
My   friend ,    accustomed   to   an   unbroken   line   of   successes ,    was   sensitive   to   his   failure   so   much   so   that   he   could   not   even   endure   discussion   of   the   subject . 
It   was ,    perhaps ,    a   sign   of   pettiness   in   so   great   a   man ,    but   even   the   most   sober   of   us   is   liable   to   have   his   head   turned   by   success . 
In   Poirot's   case   the   head-turning   process   had   been   going   on   for   years . 
Small   wonder   if   its   effects   became   noticeable   at   long   last . 
Understanding ,    I   respected   my   friend's   weakness   and   I   made   no   further   reference   to   the   case . 
I   read   in   the   paper   the   account   of   the   inquest . 
It   was   very   brief ,    no   mention   was   made   of   the B letter ,    and   a   verdict   was   returned   of   murder   by   some   person   or   persons   unknown . 
The   crime   attracted   very   little   attention   in   the   press . 
It   had   no   popular   or   spectacular   features . 
The   murder   of   an   old   woman   in   a   side   street   was   soon   passed   over   in   the   press   for   more   thrilling   topics . 
Truth   to   tell ,    the   affair   was   fading   from   my   mind   also ,    partly ,    I   think ,    because   I   disliked   to   think   of   Poirot   as   being   in   any   way   associated   with   a   failure ,    when   on   July   25th   it   was   suddenly   revived . 
I   had   not   seen   Poirot   for   a   couple   of   days   as   I   had   been   away   in   Yorkshire   for   the   weekend . 
I   arrived   back   on   Monday   afternoon   and   the   letter   came   by   the   six clock   post . 
I   remember   the   sudden ,    sharp   intake   of   breath   that   Poirot   gave   as   he   slit   open   that   particular   envelope . 
It   has   come ,    he   said . 
I   stared   at   him   not   understanding . 
The   second   chapter   of   the B business . 
For   a   minute   I   looked   at   him   uncomprehendingly . 
The   matter   had   really   passed   from   my   memory . 
Read ,    said   Poirot   and   passed   me   over   the   letter . 
As   before ,    it   was   printed   on   good-quality   paper . 
Dear   Mr .    Poirot ,    Well ,    what   about   it ? 
First   game   to   me ,    I   think . 
The   Andover   business   went   with   a   swing ,    didn't   it ? 
But   the   fun's   only   just   beginning . 
Let   me   draw   your   attention   to   Bexhill-on-Sea . 
Date ,    the   25th   inst . 
What   a   merry   time   we   are   having ! 
Good   God ,    Poirot ,    I   cried . 
Does   this   mean   that   this   fiend   is   going   to   attempt   another   crime ? 
What   else   did   you   expect ? 
Did   you   think   that   the   Andover   business   was   an   isolated   case ? 
Do   you   not   remember   my   saying :    This   is   the   beginning    ? 
Yes ,    it   is   horrible . 
 We're   up   against   a   homicidal   maniac . 
His   quietness   was   more   impressive   than   any   heroics   could   have   been . 
I   handed   back   the   letter   with   a   shudder . 
The   following   morning   saw   us   at   a   conference   of   powers . 
The   Chief   Constable   of   Sussex ,    the   Assistant   Commissioner   of   the   CID ,    Inspector   Glen   from   Andover ,    Superintendent   Carter   of   the   Sussex   police ,    Japp   and   a   younger   inspector   called   Crome ,    and   Dr .    Thompson ,    the   famous   alienist ,    were   all   assembled   together . 
The   postmark   on   this   letter   was   Hampstead ,    but   in   Poirot's   opinion   little   importance   could   be   attached   to   this   fact . 
The   matter   was   discussed   fully . 
Dr .    Thompson   was   a   pleasant   middle-aged   man   who ,    in   spite   of   his   learning ,    contented   himself   with   homely   language ,    avoiding   the   technicalities   of   his   profession . 
 There's   no   doubt ,    said   the   Assistant   Commissioner ,    that   the   two   letters   are   in   the   same   hand . 
Both   were   written   by   the   same   person . 
And   we   can   fairly   assume   that   that   person   was   responsible   for   the   Andover   murder . 
 We've   now   got   definite   warning   of   a   second   crime   scheduled   to   take   place   on   the   25th   the   day   after   tomorrow   at   Bexhill . 
What   steps   can   be   taken ? 
The   Sussex   Chief   Constable   looked   at   his   superintendent . 
Well ,    Carter ,    what   about   it ? 
The   superintendent   shook   his   head   gravely . 
 There's   not   the   least   clue   towards   whom   the   victim   may   be . 
Speaking   fair   and   square ,    what   steps   can   we   take ? 
A   suggestion ,    murmured   Poirot . 
Their   faces   turned   to   him . 
I   think   it   possible   that   the   surname   of   the   intended   victim   will   begin   with   the   letter . 
That   would   be   something ,    said   the   superintendent   doubtfully . 
An   alphabetical   complex ,    said   Dr .    Thompson   thoughtfully . 
I   suggest   it   as   a   possibility   no   more . 
It   came   into   my   mind   when   I   saw   the   name   Ascher   clearly   written   over   the   shop   door   of   the   unfortunate   woman   who   was   murdered   last   month . 
When   I   got   the   letter   naming   Bexhill   it   occurred   to   me   as   a   possibility   that   the   victim   as   well   as   the   place   might   be   selected   by   an   alphabetical   system . 
 It's   possible ,    said   the   doctor . 
On   the   other   hand ,    it   may   be   that   the   name   Ascher   was   a   coincidence   that   the   victim   this   time ,    no   matter   what   her   name   is ,    will   again   be   an   old   woman   who   keeps   a   shop . 
 We're   dealing ,    remember ,    with   a   madman . 
So   far   he   hasn't   given   us   any   clue   as   to   motive . 
Has   a   madman   any   motive ,    sir ? 
Of   course   he   has ,    man . 
A   deadly   logic   is   one   of   the   special   characteristics   of   acute   mania . 
A   man   may   believe   himself   divinely   appointed   to   kill   clergymen   or   doctors   or   old   women   in   tobacco   shops   and   there's   always   some   perfectly   coherent   reason   behind   it . 
We   mustn't   let   the   alphabetical   business   run   away   with   us . 
Bexhill   succeeding   to   Andover   may   be   a   mere   coincidence . 
We   can   at   least   take   certain   precautions ,    Carter ,    and   make   a   special   note   of   the   B's ,    especially   small   shopkeepers ,    and   keep   a   watch   on   all   small   tobacconists   and   newsagents   looked   after   by   a   single   person . 
I   don't   think   there's   anything   more   we   can   do   than   that . 
Naturally ,    keep   tabs   on   all   strangers   as   far   as   possible . 
The   superintendent   uttered   a   groan . 
With   the   schools   breaking   up   and   the   holidays   beginning ? 
People   are   fairly   flooding   into   the   place   this   week . 
We   must   do   what   we   can ,    the   Chief   Constable   said   sharply . 
Inspector   Glen   spoke   in   his   turn . 
 I'll   have   a   watch   kept   on   anyone   connected   with   the   Ascher   business . 
Those   two   witnesses ,    Partridge   and   Riddell ,    and   of   course   Ascher   himself . 
If   they   show   any   sign   of   leaving   Andover   they'll   be   followed . 
The   conference   broke   up   after   a   few   more   suggestions   and   a   little   desultory   conversation . 
Poirot ,    I   said   as   we   walked   along   by   the   river . 
Surely   this   crime   can   be   prevented ? 
He   turned   a   haggard   face   to   me . 
The   sanity   of   a   city   full   of   men   against   the   insanity   of   one   man ? 
I   fear ,    Hastings   I   very   much   fear . 
Remember   the   long-continued   successes   of   Jack   the   Ripper . 
 It's   horrible ,    I   said . 
Madness ,    Hastings ,    is   a   terrible   thing   I   am   afraid   I   am   very   much   afraid    . 
I   still   remember   my   awakening   on   the   morning   of   the   25th   of   July . 
It   must   have   been   about   seven-thirty . 
Poirot   was   standing   by   my   bedside   gently   shaking   me   by   the   shoulder . 
One   glance   at   his   face   brought   me   from   semiconsciousness   into   the   full   possession   of   my   faculties . 
I   demanded ,    sitting   up   rapidly . 
His   answer   came   quite   simply ,    but   a   wealth   of   emotion   lay   behind   the   three   words   he   uttered . 
You   mean   but   today   is   the   25th . 
It   took   place   last   night   or   rather   in   the   early   hours   of   this   morning . 
As   I   sprang   from   bed   and   made   a   rapid   toilet ,    he   recounted   briefly   what   he   had   just   learnt   over   the   telephone . 
The   body   of   a   young   girl   has   been   found   on   the   beach   at   Bexhill . 
She   has   been   identified   as   Elizabeth   Barnard ,    a   waitress   in   one   of   the   caf's ,    who   lived   with   her   parents   in   a   little   recently   built   bungalow . 
Medical   evidence   gave   the   time   of   death   as   between   11 : 30   and   1   am . 
 They're   quite   sure   that   this   is   the   crime ? 
I   asked ,    as   I   hastily   lathered   my   face . 
An B open   at   the   trains   to   Bexhill   was   found   actually   under   the   body . 
I   do   not   want   a   second   tragedy   in   my   rooms ! 
I   wiped   the   blood   from   my   chin   rather   ruefully . 
What   is   our   plan   of   campaign ? 
The   car   will   call   for   us   in   a   few   moments   time . 
I   will   bring   you   a   cup   of   coffee   here   so   that   there   will   be   no   delay   in   starting . 
Twenty   minutes   later   we   were   in   a   fast   police   car   crossing   the   Thames   on   our   way   out   of   London . 
With   us   was   Inspector   Crome ,    who   had   been   present   at   the   conference   the   other   day ,    and   who   was   officially   in   charge   of   the   case . 
Crome   was   a   very   different   type   of   officer   from   Japp . 
A   much   younger   man ,    he   was   the   silent ,    superior   type . 
Well   educated   and   well   read ,    he   was ,    for   my   taste ,    several   shades   too   pleased   with   himself . 
He   had   lately   gained   kudos   over   a   series   of   child   murders ,    having   patiently   tracked   down   the   criminal   who   was   now   in   Broadmoor . 
He   was   obviously   a   suitable   person   to   undertake   the   present   case ,    but   I   thought   that   he   was   just   a   little   too   aware   of   the   fact   himself . 
His   manner   to   Poirot   was   a   shade   patronising . 
He   deferred   to   him   as   a   younger   man   to   an   older   one   in   a   rather   self-conscious ,    public   school   way . 
 I've   had   a   good   long   talk   with   Dr .    Thompson ,    he   said . 
 He's   very   interested   in   the   chain   or   series   type   of   murder . 
 It's   the   product   of   a   particular   distorted   type   of   mentality . 
As   a   layman   one   can't ,    of   course ,    appreciate   the   finer   points   as   they   present   themselves   to   a   medical   point   of   view . 
As   a   matter   of   fact   my   last   case   I   don't   know   whether   you   read   about   it   the   Mabel   Homer   case ,    the   Muswell   Hill   schoolgirl ,    you   know   that   man   Capper   was   extraordinary . 
Amazingly   difficult   to   pin   the   crime   on   to   him   it   was   his   third ,    too ! 
Looked   as   sane   as   you   or   I .    But   there   are   various   tests   verbal   traps ,    you   know   quite   modern ,    of   course ,    there   was   nothing   of   that   kind   in   your   day . 
Once   you   can   induce   a   man   to   give   himself   away ,    you've   got   him ! 
He   knows   that   you   know   and   his   nerve   goes . 
He   starts   giving   himself   away   right   and   left . 
Even   in   my   day   that   happened   sometimes ,    said   Poirot . 
Inspector   Crome   looked   at   him   and   murmured   conversationally :    Oh ,    yes ? 
There   was   silence   between   us   for   some   time . 
As   we   passed   New   Cross   Station ,    Crome   said : 
If   there's   anything   you   want   to   ask   me   about   the   case ,    pray   do   so . 
You   have   not ,    I   presume ,    a   description   of   the   dead   girl ? 
She   was   twenty-three   years   of   age ,    engaged   as   a   waitress   at   the   Ginger   Cat   caf
I   wondered   if   she   were   pretty ? 
As   to   that   I've   no   information ,    said   Inspector   Crome   with   a   hint   of   withdrawal . 
His   manner   said :    Really   these   foreigners ! 
A   faint   look   of   amusement   came   into   Poirot's   eyes . 
It   does   not   seem   to   you   important ,    that ? 
Yet ,    pour   une   femme ,    it   is   of   the   first   importance . 
Often   it   decides   her   destiny ! 
It   was   not   until   we   were   nearing   Sevenoaks   that   Poirot   opened   the   conversation   again . 
Were   you   informed ,    by   any   chance ,    how   and   with   what   the   girl   was   strangled ? 
Strangled   with   her   own   belt   a   thick ,    knitted   affair ,    I   gather . 
Poirot's   eyes   opened   very   wide . 
At   last   we   have   a   piece   of   information   that   is   very   definite . 
That   tells   one   something ,    does   it   not ? 
I   haven't   seen   it   yet ,    said   Inspector   Crome   coldly . 
I   felt   impatient   with   the   man's   caution   and   lack   of   imagination . 
It   gives   us   the   hallmark   of   the   murderer ,    I   said . 
It   shows   the   particular   beastliness   of   his   mind ! 
Poirot   shot   me   a   glance   I   could   not   fathom . 
On   the   face   of   it   it   conveyed   humorous   impatience . 
I   thought   that   perhaps   it   was   a   warning   not   to   be   too   outspoken   in   front   of   the   inspector . 
At   Bexhill   we   were   greeted   by   Superintendent   Carter . 
He   had   with   him   a   pleasant-faced ,    intelligent-looking   young   inspector   called   Kelsey . 
The   latter   was   detailed   to   work   in   with   Crome   over   the   case . 
 You'll   want   to   make   your   own   inquiries ,    Crome ,    said   the   superintendent . 
So   I'll   just   give   you   the   main   heads   of   the   matter   and   then   you   can   get   busy   right   away . 
Thank   you ,    sir ,    said   Crome . 
 We've   broken   the   news   to   her   father   and   mother ,    said   the   superintendent . 
Terrible   shock   to   them ,    of   course . 
I   left   them   to   recover   a   bit   before   questioning   them ,    so   you   can   start   from   the   beginning   there . 
There   are   other   members   of   the   family   yes ? 
 There's   a   sister   a   typist   in   London . 
And   there's   a   young   man   in   fact ,    the   girl   was   supposed   to   be   out   with   him   last   night ,    I   gather . 
Any   help   from   the B guide ? 
 It's   there ,    the   superintendent   nodded   towards   the   table . 
Open   at   the   page   for   Bexhill . 
A   new   copy ,    I   should   say   doesn't   seem   to   have   been   opened   much . 
Not   bought   anywhere   round   here . 
 I've   tried   all   the   likely   stationers . 
Who   discovered   the   body ,    sir ? 
One   of   these   fresh-air ,    early-morning   colonels . 
He   was   out   with   his   dog   about   6   am . 
Went   along   the   front   in   the   direction   of   Cooden ,    and   down   on   to   the   beach . 
Dog   went   off   and   sniffed   at   something . 
Colonel   had   a   look   and   thought   something   queer   was   up . 
 Didn't   touch   her   at   all   and   rang   us   up   immediately . 
And   the   time   of   death   was   round   about   midnight   last   night ? 
Between   midnight   and   1   am   that's   pretty   certain . 
Our   homicidal   joker   is   a   man   of   his   word . 
If   he   says   the   25th ,    it   is   the   25th   though   it   may   have   been   only   by   a   few   minutes . 
Yes ,    that's   his   mentality   all   right . 
Not   as   far   as   we   know . 
Everyone   who   saw   a   girl   in   white   walking   with   a   man   last   night   will   be   along   to   tell   us   about   it   soon ,    and   as   I   imagine   there   were   about   four   or   five   hundred   girls   in   white   walking   with   young   men   last   night ,    it   ought   to   be   a   nice   business . 
Well ,    sir ,    I'd   better   get   down   to   it ,    said   Crome . 
 There's   the   caf   and   there's   the   girl's   home . 
 I'd   better   go   to   both   of   them . 
Kelsey   can   come   with   me . 
I   will   accompany   you ,    said   Poirot   to   Crome   with   a   little   bow . 
Crome ,    I   thought ,    looked   slightly   annoyed . 
Kelsey ,    who   had   not   seen   Poirot   before ,    grinned   broadly . 
It   was   an   unfortunate   circumstance   that   the   first   time   people   saw   my   friend   they   were   always   disposed   to   consider   him   as   a   joke   of   the   first   water . 
What   about   this   belt   she   was   strangled   with ? 
Mr .    Poirot   is   inclined   to   think   it's   a   valuable   clue . 
I   expect   he'd   like   to   see   it . 
Du   tout ,    said   Poirot   quickly . 
 You'll   get   nothing   from   that ,    said   Carter . 
It   wasn't   a   leather   belt   might   have   got   fingerprints   if   it   had   been . 
Just   a   thick   sort   of   knitted   silk   ideal   for   the   purpose . 
Well ,    said   Crome ,    we'd   better   be   getting   along . 
Our   first   visit   was   to   the   Ginger   Cat . 
Situated   on   the   sea   front ,    this   was   the   usual   type   of   small   tearoom . 
It   had   little   tables   covered   with   orange-checked   cloths   and   basket-work   chairs   of   exceeding   discomfort   with   orange   cushions   on   them . 
It   was   the   kind   of   place   that   specialized   in   morning   coffee ,    five   different   kinds   of   teas    ( Devonshire ,    Farmhouse ,    Fruit ,    Carlton   and   Plain )  ,    and   a   few   sparing   lunch   dishes   for   females   such   as   scrambled   eggs   and   shrimps   and   macaroni   au   gratin . 
The   morning   coffees   were   just   getting   under   way . 
The   manageress   ushered   us   hastily   into   a   very   untidy   back   sanctum . 
Miss   Merrion   bleated   out   in   a   high ,    distressed-gentlewoman   voice : 
This   is   a   most   distressing   business . 
How   it   will   affect   our   business   I   really   cannot   think ! 
Miss   Merrion   was   a   very   thin   woman   of   forty   with   wispy   orange   hair    ( indeed   she   was   astonishingly   like   a   ginger   cat   herself )  . 
She   played   nervously   with   various   fichus   and   frills   that   were   part   of   her   official   costume . 
 You'll   have   a   boom ,    said   Inspector   Kelsey   encouragingly . 
You   won't   be   able   to   serve   teas   fast   enough ! 
Disgusting ,    said   Miss   Merrion . 
It   makes   one   despair   of   human   nature . 
But   her   eyes   brightened   nevertheless . 
What   can   you   tell   me   about   the   dead   girl ,    Miss   Merrion ? 
Nothing ,    said   Miss   Merrion   positively . 
How   long   had   she   been   working   here ? 
This   was   the   second   summer . 
You   were   satisfied   with   her ? 
She   was   a   good   waitress   quick   and   obliging . 
She   was   pretty ,    yes ? 
Miss   Merrion ,    in   her   turn ,    gave   him   an   Oh ,    these   foreigners   look . 
She   was   a   nice ,    clean-looking   girl ,    she   said   distantly . 
What   time   did   she   go   off   duty   last   night ? 
We   do   not   serve   dinners . 
There   is   no   demand   for   them . 
Scrambled   eggs   and   tea    ( Poirot   shuddered )    people   come   in   for   up   to   seven clock   and   sometimes   after ,    but   our   rush   is   over   by   6 : 30 . 
Did   she   mention   to   you   how   she   proposed   to   spend   her   evening ? 
Certainly   not ,    said   Miss   Merrion   emphatically . 
We   were   not   on   those   terms . 
No   one   came   in   and   called   for   her ? 
Did   she   seem   quite   her   ordinary   self ? 
Really   I   could   not   say ,    said   Miss   Merrion   aloofly . 
How   many   waitresses   do   you   employ ? 
Two   normally ,    and   an   extra   two   after   the   20th   July   until   the   end   of   August . 
But   Elizabeth   Barnard   was   not   one   of   the   extras ? 
Miss   Barnard   was   one   of   the   regulars . 
What   about   the   other   one ? 
She   is   a   very   nice   young   lady . 
Were   she   and   Miss   Barnard   friends ? 
Really   I   could   not   say . 
Perhaps   we'd   better   have   a   word   with   her . 
I   will   send   her   to   you ,    said   Miss   Merrion ,    rising . 
Please   keep   her   as   short   a   time   as   possible . 
This   is   the   morning   coffee   rush   hour . 
The   feline   and   gingery   Miss   Merrion   left   the   room . 
Very   refined ,    remarked   Inspector   Kelsey . 
He   mimicked   the   lady's   mincing   tone . 
Really   I   could   not   say . 
A   plump   girl ,    slightly   out   of   breath ,    with   dark   hair ,    rosy   cheeks   and   dark   eyes   goggling   with   excitement ,    bounced   in . 
Miss   Merrion   sent   me ,    she   announced   breathlessly . 
Oh ,    yes ,    I   knew   Betty . 
I   can't   believe   it's   true . 
 I've   been   saying   to   the   girls   all   the   morning   I   just   can't   believe   it ! 
You   know ,    girls ,    I   said ,    it   just   doesn't   seem   real . 
I   mean ,    Betty   Barnard ,    who's   been   here   all   along ,    murdered ! 
I   just   can't   believe   it ,    I   said . 
Five   or   six   times   I've   pinched   myself   just   to   see   if   I   wouldn't   wake   up . 
Betty   murdered   It's   well ,    you   know   what   I   mean   it   doesn't   seem   real . 
You   knew   the   dead   girl   well ? 
Well ,    she's   worked   here   longer   than   I   have . 
I   only   came   this   March . 
She   was   here   last   year . 
She   was   rather   quiet ,    if   you   know   what   I   mean . 
She   wasn't   one   to   joke   or   laugh   a   lot . 
I   don't   mean   that   she   was   exactly   quiet   she'd   plenty   of   fun   in   her   and   all   that   but   she   didn't   well ,    she   was   quiet   and   she   wasn't   quiet ,    if   you   know   what   I   mean . 
I   will   say   for   Inspector   Crome   that   he   was   exceedingly   patient . 
As   a   witness   the   buxom   Miss   Higley   was   persistently   maddening . 
Every   statement   she   made   was   repeated   and   qualified   half   a   dozen   times . 
The   net   result   was   meagre   in   the   extreme . 
She   had   not   been   on   terms   of   intimacy   with   the   dead   girl . 
Elizabeth   Barnard ,    it   could   be   guessed ,    had   considered   herself   a   cut   above   Miss   Higley . 
She   had   been   friendly   in   working   hours ,    but   the   girls   had   not   seen   much   of   her   out   of   them . 
Elizabeth   Barnard   had   had   a   friend   who   worked   at   the   estate   agents   near   the   station . 
No ,    he   wasn't   Mr .    Court   nor   Mr .    Brunskill . 
He   was   a   clerk   there . 
She   didn't   know   his   name . 
But   she   knew   him   by   sight   well . 
Good-looking   oh ,    very   good-looking ,    and   always   so   nicely   dressed . 
Clearly ,    there   was   a   tinge   of   jealousy   in   Miss   Higley's   heart . 
In   the   end   it   boiled   down   to   this . 
Elizabeth   Barnard   had   not   confided   in   anyone   in   the   caf   as   to   her   plans   for   the   evening ,    but   in   Miss   Higley's   opinion   she   had   been   going   to   meet   her   friend . 
She   had   had   on   a   new   white   dress ,    ever   so   sweet   with   one   of   the   new   necks . 
We   had   a   word   with   each   of   the   other   two   girls   but   with   no   further   results . 
Betty   Barnard   had   not   said   anything   as   to   her   plans   and   no   one   had   noticed   her   in   Bexhill   during   the   course   of   the   evening . 
Elizabeth   Barnard's   parents   lived   in   a   minute   bungalow ,    one   of   fifty   or   so   recently   run   up   by   a   speculative   builder   on   the   confines   of   the   town . 
The   name   of   it   was   Llandudno . 
Mr .    Barnard ,    a   stout ,    bewildered-looking   man   of   fifty-five   or   so ,    had   noticed   our   approach   and   was   standing   waiting   in   the   doorway . 
Come   in ,    gentlemen ,    he   said . 
Inspector   Kelsey   took   the   initiative . 
This   is   Inspector   Crome   of   Scotland   Yard ,    sir ,    he   said . 
 He's   come   down   to   help   us   over   this   business . 
said   Mr .    Barnard   hopefully . 
This   murdering   villain's   got   to   be   laid   by   the   heels . 
My   poor   little   girl   His   face   was   distorted   by   a   spasm   of   grief . 
And   this   is   Mr .    Hercule   Poirot ,    also   from   London ,    and   er
Captain   Hastings ,    said   Poirot . 
Pleased   to   meet   you ,    gentlemen ,    said   Mr .    Barnard   mechanically . 
I   don't   know   that   my   poor   wife's   up   to   seeing   you . 
All   broken   up ,    she   is . 
However ,    by   the   time   that   we   were   ensconced   in   the   living   room   of   the   bungalow ,    Mrs .    Barnard   had   made   her   appearance . 
She   had   evidently   been   crying   bitterly ,    her   eyes   were   reddened   and   she   walked   with   the   uncertain   gait   of   a   person   who   had   had   a   great   shock . 
Why ,    mother ,    that's   fine ,    said   Mr .    Barnard . 
 You're   sure   you're   all   right   eh ? 
He   patted   her   shoulder   and   drew   her   down   into   a   chair . 
The   superintendent   was   very   kind ,    said   Mr .    Barnard . 
After   he'd   broken   the   news   to   us ,    he   said   he'd   leave   any   questions   till   later   when   we'd   got   over   the   first   shock . 
Oh ,    it   is   too   cruel ,    cried   Mrs .    Barnard   tearfully . 
The   cruellest   thing   that   ever   was ,    it   is . 
Her   voice   had   a   faintly   sing-song   intonation   that   I   thought   for   a   moment   was   foreign   till   I   remembered   the   name   on   the   gate   and   realized   that   the   effer   wass   of   her   speech   was   in   reality   proof   of   her   Welsh   origin . 
 It's   very   painful ,    madam ,    I   know ,    said   Inspector   Crome . 
And   we've   every   sympathy   for   you ,    but   we   want   to   know   all   the   facts   we   can   so   as   to   get   to   work   as   quick   as   possible . 
 That's   sense ,    that   is ,    said   Mr .    Barnard ,    nodding   approval . 
Your   daughter   was   twenty-three ,    I   understand . 
She   lived   here   with   you   and   worked   at   the   Ginger   Cat   caf    ,    is   that   right ? 
This   is   a   new   place ,    isn't   it ? 
Where   did   you   live   before ? 
I   was   in   the   ironmongery   business   in   Kennington . 
Always   meant   to   live   near   the   sea . 
My   elder   daughter   works   in   an   office   in   London . 
 Weren't   you   alarmed   when   your   daughter   didn't   come   home   last   night ? 
We   didn't   know   she   hadn't ,    said   Mrs .    Barnard   tearfully . 
Dad   and   I   always   go   to   bed   early . 
We   never   knew   Betty   hadn't   come   home   till   the   police   officer   came   and   said   and   said
Was   your   daughter   in   the   habit   of   er   returning   home   late ? 
You   know   what   girls   are   nowadays ,    inspector ,    said   Barnard . 
Independent ,    that's   what   they   are . 
These   summer   evenings   they're   not   going   to   rush   home . 
All   the   same ,    Betty   was   usually   in   by   eleven . 
How   did   she   get   in ? 
Left   the   key   under   the   mat   that's   what   we   always   did . 
There   is   some   rumour ,    I   believe ,    that   your   daughter   was   engaged   to   be   married ? 
They   don't   put   it   as   formally   as   that   nowadays ,    said   Mr .    Barnard . 
Donald   Fraser   his   name   is ,    and   I   liked   him . 
I   liked   him   very   much ,    said   Mrs .    Barnard . 
Poor   fellow ,    it'll   be   trouble   for   him   this   news . 
Does   he   know   yet ,    I   wonder ? 
He   works   in   Court    &    Brunskill's ,    I   understand ? 
Yes ,    they're   the   estate   agents . 
Was   he   in   the   habit   of   meeting   your   daughter   most   evenings   after   her   work ? 
Once   or   twice   a   week   would   be   nearer . 
Do   you   know   if   she   was   going   to   meet   him   yesterday ? 
Betty   never   said   much   about   what   she   was   doing   or   where   she   was   going . 
But   she   was   a   good   girl ,    Betty   was . 
Mrs .    Barnard   started   sobbing   again . 
Pull   yourself   together ,    old   lady . 
Try   to   hold   up ,    mother ,    urged   her   husband . 
 We've   got   to   get   to   the   bottom   of   this . 
 I'm   sure   Donald   would   never   would   never   sobbed   Mrs .    Barnard . 
Now   just   you   pull   yourself   together ,    repeated   Mr   Barnard . 
I   wish   to   God   I   could   give   you   some   help   but   the   plain   fact   is   I   know   nothing   nothing   at   all   that   can   help   you   to   find   the   dastardly   scoundrel   who   did   this . 
Betty   was   just   a   merry ,    happy   girl   with   a   decent   young   fellow   that   she   was   well ,    we'd   have   called   it   walking   out   with   in   my   young   days . 
Why   anyone   should   want   to   murder   her   simply   beats   me   it   doesn't   make   sense . 
 You're   very   near   the   truth   there ,    Mr .    Barnard ,    said   Crome . 
I   tell   you   what   I'd   like   to   do   have   a   look   over   Miss   Barnard's   room . 
There   may   be   something   letters   or   a   diary . 
Look   over   it   and   welcome ,    said   Mr .    Barnard ,    rising . 
Crome   followed   him ,    then   Poirot ,    then   Kelsey ,    and   I   brought   up   the   rear . 
I   stopped   for   a   minute   to   retie   my   shoelaces ,    and   as   I   did   so   a   taxi   drew   up   outside   and   a   girl   jumped   out   of   it . 
She   paid   the   driver   and   hurried   up   the   path   to   the   house ,    carrying   a   small   suitcase . 
As   she   entered   the   door   she   saw   me   and   stopped   dead . 
There   was   something   so   arresting   in   her   pose   that   it   intrigued   me . 
I   came   down   a   few   steps . 
I   felt   embarrassed   as   to   how   exactly   to   reply . 
Should   I   give   my   name ? 
Or   mention   that   I   had   come   here   with   the   police ? 
The   girl ,    however ,    gave   me   no   time   to   make   a   decision . 
Oh ,    well ,    she   said ,    I   can   guess . 
She   pulled   off   the   little   white   woollen   cap   she   was   wearing   and   threw   it   on   the   ground . 
I   could   see   her   better   now   as   she   turned   a   little   so   that   the   light   fell   on   her . 
My   first   impression   was   of   the   Dutch   dolls   that   my   sisters   used   to   play   with   in   my   childhood . 
Her   hair   was   black   and   cut   in   a   straight   bob   and   a   bang   across   the   forehead . 
Her   cheek-bones   were   high   and   her   whole   figure   had   a   queer   modern   angularity   that   was   not ,    somehow ,    unattractive . 
She   was   not   good-looking   plain   rather   but   there   was   an   intensity   about   her ,    a   forcefulness   that   made   her   a   person   quite   impossible   to   overlook . 
You   belong   to   the   police ,    I   suppose ? 
I   don't   think   I've   got   anything   to   say   to   you . 
My   sister   was   a   nice   bright   girl   with   no   men   friends . 
She   gave   me   a   short   laugh   as   she   spoke   and   regarded   me   challengingly . 
 That's   the   correct   phrase ,    I   believe ? 
 I'm   not   a   reporter ,    if   that's   what   you're   getting   at . 
Well ,    what   are   you ? 
Your   father   is   showing   the   police   your   sister's   bedroom . 
The   girl   seemed   to   make   a   decision . 
Come   in   here ,    she   said . 
She   pulled   open   a   door   and   passed   through . 
I   followed   her   and   found   myself   in   a   small ,    neat   kitchen . 
I   was   about   to   shut   the   door   behind   me   but   found   an   unexpected   resistance . 
The   next   moment   Poirot   had   slipped   quietly   into   the   room   and   shut   the   door   behind   him . 
he   said   with   a   quick   bow . 
This   is .    Hercule   Poirot ,    I   said . 
Megan   Barnard   gave   him   a   quick ,    appraising   glance . 
 I've   heard   of   you ,    she   said . 
 You're   the   fashionable   private   sleuth ,    aren't   you ? 
Not   a   pretty   description   but   it   suffices ,    said   Poirot . 
The   girl   sat   down   on   the   edge   of   the   kitchen   table . 
She   felt   in   her   bag   for   a   cigarette . 
She   placed   it   between   her   lips ,    lighted   it ,    and   then   said   in   between   two   puffs   of   smoke : 
Somehow ,    I   don't   see   what .    Hercule   Poirot   is   doing   in   our   humble   little   crime . 
What   you   do   not   see   and   what   I   do   not   see   would   probably   fill   a   volume . 
But   all   that   is   of   no   practical   importance . 
What   is   of   practical   importance   is   something   that   will   not   be   easy   to   find . 
Death ,    mademoiselle ,    unfortunately   creates   a   prejudice . 
A   prejudice   in   favour   of   the   deceased . 
I   heard   what   you   said   just   now   to   my   friend   Hastings . 
A   nice   bright   girl   with   no   men   friends .    You   said   that   in   mockery   of   the   newspapers . 
And   it   is   very   true   when   a   young   girl   is   dead ,    that   is   the   kind   of   thing   that   is   said . 
She   had   not   a   care   in   the   world . 
She   had   no   undesirable   acquaintances . 
There   is   a   great   charity   always   to   the   dead . 
Do   you   know   what   I   should   like   this   minute ? 
I   should   like   to   find   someone   who   knew   Elizabeth   Barnard   and   who   does   not   know   she   is   dead ! 
Then ,    perhaps ,    I   should   hear   what   is   useful   to   me   the   truth . 
Megan   Barnard   looked   at   him   for   a   few   minutes   in   silence   whilst   she   smoked . 
Then ,    at   last ,    she   spoke . 
Her   words   made   me   jump . 
Betty ,    she   said ,    was   an   unmitigated   little   ass ! 
As   I   said ,    Megan   Barnard's   words ,    and   still   more   the   crisp   businesslike   tone   in   which   they   were   uttered ,    made   me   jump . 
Poirot ,    however ,    merely   bowed   his   head   gravely . 
A   la   bonne   heure ,    he   said . 
You   are   intelligent ,    mademoiselle . 
Megan   Barnard   said ,    still   in   the   same   detached   tone : 
I   was   extremely   fond   of   Betty . 
But   my   fondness   didn't   blind   me   from   seeing   exactly   the   kind   of   silly   little   fool   she   was   and   even   telling   her   so   upon   occasions ! 
And   did   she   pay   any   attention   to   your   advice ? 
Probably   not ,    said   Megan   cynically . 
Will   you ,    mademoiselle ,    be   precise . 
The   girl   hesitated   for   a   minute   or   two . 
Poirot   said   with   a   slight   smile : 
I   heard   what   you   said   to   Hastings . 
That   your   sister   was   a   bright ,    happy   girl   with   no   men   friends . 
It   was   un   peu   the   opposite   that   was   true ,    was   it   not ? 
There   wasn't   any   harm   in   Betty . 
I   want   you   to   understand   that . 
 She's   not   the   weekending   kind . 
But   she   liked   being   taken   out   and   dancing   and   oh ,    cheap   flattery   and   compliments   and   all   that   sort   of   thing . 
And   she   was   pretty   yes ? 
This   question ,    the   third   time   I   had   heard   it ,    met   this   time   with   a   practical   response . 
Megan   slipped   off   the   table ,    went   to   her   suitcase ,    snapped   it   open   and   extracted   something   which   she   handed   to   Poirot . 
In   a   leather   frame   was   a   head   and   shoulders   of   a   fair-haired ,    smiling   girl . 
Her   hair   had   evidently   recently   been   permed ,    it   stood   out   from   her   head   in   a   mass   of   rather   frizzy   curls . 
The   smile   was   arch   and   artificial . 
It   was   certainly   not   a   face   that   you   could   call   beautiful ,    but   it   had   an   obvious   and   cheap   prettiness . 
Poirot   handed   it   back ,    saying : 
You   and   she   do   not   resemble   each   other ,    mademoiselle . 
 I'm   the   plain   one   of   the   family . 
She   seemed   to   brush   aside   the   fact   as   unimportant . 
In   what   way   exactly   do   you   consider   your   sister   was   behaving   foolishly ? 
Do   you   mean ,    perhaps ,    in   relation   to   Mr .    Donald   Fraser ? 
Don's   a   very   quiet   sort   of   person   but   he   well ,    naturally   he'd   resent   certain   things   and   then
And   then   what ,    mademoiselle ? 
His   eyes   were   on   her   very   steadily . 
It   may   have   been   my   fancy   but   it   seemed   to   me   that   she   hesitated   a   second   before   answering . 
I   was   afraid   that   he   might   chuck   her   altogether . 
And   that   would   have   been   a   pity . 
 He's   a   very   steady   and   hard-working   man   and   would   have   made   her   a   good   husband . 
Poirot   continued   to   gaze   at   her . 
She   did   not   flush   under   his   glance   but   returned   it   with   one   of   her   own   equally   steady   and   with   something   else   in   it   something   that   reminded   me   of   her   first   defiant ,    disdainful   manner . 
So   it   is   like   that ,    he   said   at   last . 
We   do   not   speak   the   truth   any   longer . 
She   shrugged   her   shoulders   and   turned   towards   the   door . 
 I've   done   what   I   could   to   help   you . 
I   have   something   to   tell   you . 
Rather   unwillingly ,    I   thought ,    she   obeyed . 
Somewhat   to   my   surprise ,    Poirot   plunged   into   the   whole   story   of   the B letters ,    the   murder   of   Andover ,    and   the   railway   guide   found   by   the   bodies . 
He   had   no   reason   to   complain   of   any   lack   of   interest   on   her   part . 
Her   lips   parted ,    her   eyes   gleaming ,    she   hung   on   his   words . 
Is   this   all   true , .    Poirot ? 
Yes ,    it   is   true . 
You   really   mean   that   my   sister   was   killed   by   some   horrible   homicidal   maniac ? 
She   drew   a   deep   breath . 
Betty   Betty   how   how   ghastly ! 
You   see ,    mademoiselle ,    that   the   information   for   which   I   ask   you   can   give   freely   without   wondering   whether   or   not   it   will   hurt   anyone . 
Yes ,    I   see   that   now . 
Then   let   us   continue   our   conversation . 
I   have   formed   the   idea   that   this   Donald   Fraser   has ,    perhaps ,    a   violent   and   jealous   temper ,    is   that   right ? 
 I'm   trusting   you   now , .    Poirot . 
 I'm   going   to   give   you   the   absolute   truth . 
Don   is ,    as   I   say ,    a   very   quiet   person   a   bottled-up   person ,    if   you   know   what   I   mean . 
He   can't   always   express   what   he   feels   in   words . 
But   underneath   it   all   he   minds   things   terribly . 
And   he's   got   a   jealous   nature . 
He   was   always   jealous   of   Betty . 
He   was   devoted   to   her   and   of   course   she   was   very   fond   of   him ,    but   it   wasn't   in   Betty   to   be   fond   of   one   person   and   not   notice   anybody   else . 
She   wasn't   made   that   way . 
 She'd   got   a   well ,    an   eye   for   any   nice-looking   man   who'd   pass   the   time   of   day   with   her . 
And   of   course ,    working   in   the   Ginger   Cat ,    she   was   always   running   up   against   men   especially   in   the   summer   holidays . 
She   was   always   very   pat   with   her   tongue   and   if   they   chaffed   her   she'd   chaff   back   again . 
And   then   perhaps   she'd   meet   them   and   go   to   the   pictures   or   something   like   that . 
Nothing   serious   never   anything   of   that   kind   but   she   just   liked   her   fun . 
She   used   to   say   that   as   she'd   got   to   settle   down   with   Don   one   day   she   might   as   well   have   her   fun   now   while   she   could . 
Megan   paused   and   Poirot   said : 
It   was   just   that   attitude   of   mind   of   hers   that   Don   couldn't   understand . 
If   she   was   really   keen   on   him   he   couldn't   see   why   she   wanted   to   go   out   with   other   people . 
And   once   or   twice   they   had   flaming   big   rows   about   it . 
M .    Don ,    he   was   no   longer   quiet ? 
 It's   like   all   those   quiet   people ,    when   they   do   lose   their   tempers   they   lose   them   with   a   vengeance . 
Don   was   so   violent   that   Betty   was   frightened . 
There   was   one   row   nearly   a   year   ago   and   another   a   worse   one   just   over   a   month   ago . 
I   was   home   for   the   weekend   and   I   got   them   to   patch   it   up   again ,    and   it   was   then   I   tried   to   knock   a   little   sense   into   Betty   told   her   she   was   a   little   fool . 
All   she   would   say   was   that   there   hadn't   been   any   harm   in   it . 
Well ,    that   was   true   enough ,    but   all   the   same   she   was   riding   for   a   fall . 
You   see ,    after   the   row   a   year   ago ,    she'd   got   into   the   habit   of   telling   a   few   useful   lies   on   the   principle   that   what   the   mind   doesn't   know   the   heart   doesn't   grieve   over . 
This   last   flare-up   came   because   she'd   told   Don   she   was   going   to   Hastings   to   see   a   girl   pal   and   he   found   out   that   she'd   really   been   over   to   Eastbourne   with   some   man . 
He   was   a   married   man ,    as   it   happened ,    and   he'd   been   a   bit   secretive   about   the   business   anyway   and   so   that   made   it   worse . 
They   had   an   awful   scene   Betty   saying   that   she   wasn't   married   to   him   yet   and   she   had   a   right   to   go   about   with   whom   she   pleased   and   Don   all   white   and   shaking   and   saying   that   one   day   one   day
 He'd   commit   murder   said   Megan   in   a   lowered   voice . 
She   stopped   and   stared   at   Poirot . 
He   nodded   his   head   gravely   several   times . 
And   so ,    naturally ,    you   were   afraid    . 
I   didn't   think   he'd   actually   done   it   not   for   a   minute ! 
But   I   was   afraid   it   might   be   brought   up   the   quarrel   and   all   that   he'd   said   several   people   knew   about   it . 
Again   Poirot   nodded   his   head   gravely . 
And   I   may   say ,    mademoiselle ,    that   but   for   the   egoistical   vanity   of   a   killer ,    that   is   just   what   would   have   happened . 
If   Donald   Fraser   escapes   suspicion ,    it   will   be   thanks   to B   C's   maniacal   boasting . 
He   was   silent   for   a   minute   or   two ,    then   he   said : 
Do   you   know   if   your   sister   met   this   married   man ,    or   any   other   man ,    lately ? 
 I've   been   away ,    you   see . 
But   what   do   you   think ? 
She   mayn't   have   met   that   particular   man   again . 
 He'd   probably   sheer   off   if   he   thought   there   was   a   chance   of   a   row ,    but   it   wouldn't   surprise   me   if   Betty   had   well ,    been   telling   Don   a   few   lies   again . 
You   see ,    she   did   so   enjoy   dancing   and   the   pictures ,    and   of   course ,    Don   couldn't   afford   to   take   her   all   the   time . 
If   so ,    is   she   likely   to   have   confided   in   anyone ? 
The   girl   at   the   caf    ,    for   instance ? 
I   don't   think   that's   likely . 
Betty   couldn't   bear   the   Higley   girl . 
And   the   others   would   be   new . 
Betty   wasn't   the   confiding   sort   anyway . 
An   electric   bell   trilled   sharply   above   the   girl's   head . 
She   went   to   the   window   and   leaned   out . 
She   drew   back   her   head   sharply . 
Bring   him   in   here ,    said   Poirot   quickly . 
I   would   like   a   word   with   him   before   our   good   inspector   takes   him   in   hand . 
Like   a   flash   Megan   Barnard   was   out   of   the   kitchen ,    and   a   couple   of   seconds   later   she   was   back   again   leading   Donald   Fraser   by   the   hand . 
I   felt   sorry   at   once   for   the   young   man . 
His   white   haggard   face   and   bewildered   eyes   showed   how   great   a   shock   he   had   had . 
He   was   a   well-made ,    fine-looking   young   fellow ,    standing   close   on   six   foot ,    not   good-looking ,    but   with   a   pleasant ,    freckled   face ,    high   cheek-bones   and   flaming   red   hair . 
For   God's   sake ,    tell   me   I've   only   just   heard   Betty    . 
Poirot   pushed   forward   a   chair   and   he   sank   down   on   it . 
My   friend   then   extracted   a   small   flask   from   his   pocket ,    poured   some   of   its   contents   into   a   convenient   cup   which   was   hanging   on   the   dresser   and   said : 
Drink   some   of   this ,    Mr .    Fraser . 
It   will   do   you   good . 
The   brandy   brought   a   little   colour   back   into   his   face . 
He   sat   up   straighter   and   turned   once   more   to   the   girl . 
His   manner   was   quite   quiet   and   self-controlled . 
 It's   true ,    I   suppose ? 
He   said   as   though   mechanically : 
Have   you   just   come   down   from   London ? 
By   the   9 : 30 ,    I   suppose ? 
His   mind ,    shrinking   from   reality ,    ran   for   safety   along   these   unimportant   details . 
There   was   silence   for   a   minute   or   two ,    then   Fraser   said : 
Looking   through   Betty's   things ,    I   suppose . 
He   had   all   a   sensitive ,    shy   person's   dislike   of   putting   violent   facts   into   words . 
Poirot   moved   forward   a   little   and   asked   a   question . 
He   spoke   in   a   businesslike ,    matter-of-fact   voice   as   though   what   he   asked   was   an   unimportant   detail . 
Did   Miss   Barnard   tell   you   where   she   was   going   last   night ? 
Fraser   replied   to   the   question . 
He   seemed   to   be   speaking   mechanically : 
She   told   me   she   was   going   with   a   girl   friend   to   St .    Leonards . 
I   Suddenly   the   automaton   came   to   life . 
What   the   devil   do   you   mean ? 
His   face   then ,    menacing ,    convulsed   by   sudden   passion ,    made   me   understand   that   a   girl   might   well   be   afraid   of   rousing   his   anger . 
Betty   Barnard   was   killed   by   a   homicidal   murderer . 
Only   by   speaking   the   exact   truth   can   you   help   us   to   get   on   his   track . 
His   glance   for   a   minute   turned   to   Megan . 
 That's   right ,    Don ,    she   said . 
It   isn't   a   time   for   considering   one's   own   feelings   or   anyone   else's . 
 You've   got   to   come   clean . 
Donald   Fraser   looked   suspiciously   at   Poirot . 
You   don't   belong   to   the   police ? 
I   am   better   than   the   police ,    said   Poirot . 
He   said   it   without   conscious   arrogance . 
It   was ,    to   him ,    a   simple   statement   of   fact . 
Tell   him ,    said   Megan . 
I   wasn't   sure ,    he   said . 
I   believed   her   when   she   said   it . 
Never   thought   of   doing   anything   else . 
Afterwards   perhaps   it   was   something   in   her   manner . 
I   I ,    well ,    I   began   to   wonder . 
He   had   sat   down   opposite   Donald   Fraser . 
His   eyes ,    fixed   on   the   other   man's ,    seemed   to   be   exercising   a   mesmeric   spell . 
I   was   ashamed   of   myself   for   being   so   suspicious . 
But   but   I   was   suspicious   I   thought   of   going   to   the   front   and   watching   her   when   she   left   the   caf    . 
Then   I   felt   I   couldn't   do   that . 
Betty   would   see   me   and   she'd   be   angry . 
 She'd   realize   at   once   that   I   was   watching   her . 
I   went   over   to   St .    Leonards . 
Got   over   there   by   eight clock . 
Then   I   watched   the   buses   to   see   if   she   were   in   them   But   there   was   no   sign   of   her    . 
I   I   lost   my   head   rather . 
I   was   convinced   she   was   with   some   man . 
I   thought   it   probable   he   had   taken   her   in   his   car   to   Hastings . 
I   went   on   there   looked   in   hotels   and   restaurants ,    hung   round   cinemas   went   on   the   pier . 
Even   if   she   was   there   I   was   unlikely   to   find   her ,    and   anyway ,    there   were   heaps   of   other   places   he   might   have   taken   her   to   instead   of   Hastings . 
Precise   as   his   tone   had   remained ,    I   caught   an   undertone   of   that   blind ,    bewildering   misery   and   anger   that   had   possessed   him   at   the   time   he   described . 
In   the   end   I   gave   it   up   came   back . 
It   must   have   been   midnight   or   after   when   I   got   home . 
Oh ,    there   you   are ,    said   Inspector   Kelsey . 
Inspector   Crome   pushed   past   him ,    shot   a   glance   at   Poirot   and   a   glance   at   the   two   strangers . 
Miss   Megan   Barnard   and   Mr .    Donald   Fraser ,    said   Poirot ,    introducing   them . 
This   is   Inspector   Crome   from   London ,    he   explained . 
Turning   to   the   inspector ,    he   said : 
While   you   pursued   your   investigations   upstairs   I   have   been   conversing   with   Miss   Barnard   and   Mr .    Fraser ,    endeavouring   if   I   could   to   find   something   that   will   throw   light   upon   the   matter . 
said   Inspector   Crome ,    his   thoughts   not   upon   Poirot   but   upon   the   two   newcomers . 
Poirot   retreated   to   the   hall . 
Inspector   Kelsey   said   kindly   as   he   passed : 
But   his   attention   was   distracted   by   his   colleague   and   he   did   not   wait   for   a   reply . 
I   joined   Poirot   in   the   hall . 
Did   anything   strike   you ,    Poirot ? 
Only   the   amazing   magnanimity   of   the   murderer ,    Hastings . 
I   had   not   the   courage   to   say   that   I   had   not   the   least   idea   what   he   meant . 
Much   of   my   memories   of   the B case   seem   to   be   of   conferences . 
This   particular   conference   was   to   decide   whether   or   not   the   facts   relative   to   the   anonymous   letters   should   or   should   not   be   made   public   in   the   press . 
The   Bexhill   murder   had   attracted   much   more   attention   than   the   Andover   one . 
It   had ,    of   course ,    far   more   elements   of   popularity . 
To   begin   with   the   victim   was   a   young   and   good-looking   girl . 
Also ,    it   had   taken   place   at   a   popular   seaside   resort . 
All   the   details   of   the   crime   were   reported   fully   and   rehashed   daily   in   thin   disguises . 
The B railway   guide   came   in   for   its   share   of   attention . 
The   favourite   theory   was   that   it   had   been   bought   locally   by   the   murderer   and   that   it   was   a   valuable   clue   to   his   identity . 
It   also   seemed   to   show   that   he   had   come   to   the   place   by   train   and   was   intending   to   leave   for   London . 
The   railway   guide   had   not   figured   at   all   in   the   meagre   accounts   of   the   Andover   murder ,    so   there   seemed   at   present   little   likelihood   of   the   two   crimes   being   connected   in   the   public   eye . 
 We've   got   to   decide   upon   a   policy ,    said   the   Assistant   Commissioner . 
The   thing   is   which   way   will   give   us   the   best   results ? 
Shall   we   give   the   public   the   facts   enlist   their   cooperation   after   all ,    it'll   be   the   cooperation   of   several   million   people ,    looking   out   for   a   madman
He   won't   look   like   a   madman ,    interjected   Dr .    Thompson . 
looking   out   for   sales   of B   C's   and   so   on . 
Against   that   I   suppose   there's   the   advantage   of   working   in   the   dark   not   letting   our   man   know   what   we're   up   to ,    but   then   there's   the   fact   that   he   knows   very   well   that   we   know . 
 He's   drawn   attention   to   himself   deliberately   by   his   letters . 
Eh ,    Crome ,    what's   your   opinion ? 
I   look   at   it   this   way ,    sir . 
If   you   make   it   public ,    you're   playing B   C's   game . 
 That's   what   he   wants   publicity   notoriety . 
 That's   what   he's   out   after . 
 I'm   right ,    aren't   I ,    doctor ? 
He   wants   to   make   a   splash . 
The   Assistant   Commissioner   said   thoughtfully : 
So   you're   for   balking   him . 
Refusing   him   the   publicity   he's   hankering   after . 
What   about   you , .    Poirot ? 
Poirot   did   not   speak   for   a   minute . 
When   he   did   it   was   with   an   air   of   choosing   his   words   carefully . 
It   is   difficult   for   me ,    Sir   Lionel ,    he   said . 
I   am ,    as   you   might   say ,    an   interested   party . 
The   challenge   was   sent   to   me . 
If   I   say   Suppress   that   fact   do   not   make   it   public ,    may   it   not   be   thought   that   it   is   my   vanity   that   speaks ? 
That   I   am   afraid   for   my   reputation ? 
To   speak   out   to   tell   all   that   has   its   advantages . 
It   is ,    at   least ,    a   warning   On   the   other   hand ,    I   am   as   convinced   as   Inspector   Crome   that   it   is   what   the   murderer   wants   us   to   do . 
said   the   Assistant   Commissioner ,    rubbing   his   chin . 
He   looked   across   at   Dr .    Thompson . 
Suppose   we   refuse   our   lunatic   the   satisfaction   of   the   publicity   he   craves . 
What's   he   likely   to   do ? 
Commit   another   crime ,    said   the   doctor   promptly . 
And   if   we   splash   the   thing   about   in   headlines . 
One   way   you   feed   his   megalomania ,    the   other   you   balk   it . 
What   do   you   say , .    Poirot ? 
I   agree   with   Dr .    Thompson . 
How   many   crimes   do   you   think   this   lunatic   has   in   mind ? 
Dr .    Thompson   looked   across   at   Poirot . 
Looks   like to ,    he   said   cheerfully . 
Of   course ,    he   went   on ,    he   won't   get   there . 
 You'll   have   him   by   the   heels   long   before   that . 
Interesting   to   know   how   he'd   have   dealt   with   the   letter .    He   recalled   himself   guiltily   from   this   purely   enjoyable   speculation . 
But   you'll   have   him   long   before   that . 
G   or ,    let's   say . 
The   Assistant   Commissioner   struck   the   table   with   his   fist . 
My   God ,    are   you   telling   me   we're   going   to   have   five   more   murders ? 
It   won't   be   as   much   as   that ,    sir ,    said   Inspector   Crome . 
Which   letter   of   the   alphabet   do   you   place   it   at ,    inspector ? 
There   was   a   slight   ironic   note   in   his   voice . 
Crome ,    I   thought ,    looked   at   him   with   a   tinge   of   dislike   adulterating   the   usual   calm   superiority . 
Might   get   him   next   time , .    Poirot . 
At   any   rate ,    I'd   guarantee   to   get   him   by   the   time   he   gets   to . 
He   turned   to   the   Assistant   Commissioner . 
I   think   I've   got   the   psychology   of   the   case   fairly   clear . 
Dr .    Thompson   will   correct   me   if   I'm   wrong . 
I   take   it   that   every   time B brings   a   crime   off ,    his   self-confidence   increases   about   a   hundred   per   cent . 
Every   time   he   feels   I'm   clever   they   can't   catch   me !    he   becomes   so   over-weeningly   confident   that   he   also   becomes   careless . 
He   exaggerates   his   own   cleverness   and   everyone   else's   stupidity . 
Very   soon   he'd   be   hardly   bothering   to   take   any   precautions   at   all . 
 That's   right ,    isn't   it ,    doctor ? 
In   non-medical   terms   it   couldn't   have   been   put   better . 
You   know   something   about   such   things , .    Poirot . 
I   don't   think   that   Crome   liked   Thompson's   appeal   to   Poirot . 
He   considered   that   he   and   he   only   was   the   expert   on   this   subject . 
It   is   as   Inspector   Crome   says ,    agreed   Poirot . 
Paranoia ,    murmured   the   doctor . 
Are   there   any   material   facts   of   interest   in   the   Bexhill   case ? 
A   waiter   at   the   Splendide   at   Eastbourne   recognizes   the   dead   girl's   photograph   as   that   of   a   young   woman   who   dined   there   on   the   evening   of   the   24th   in   company   with   a   middle-aged   man   in   spectacles . 
 It's   also   been   recognized   at   a   roadhouse   place   called   the   Scarlet   Runner   halfway   between   Bexhill   and   London . 
They   say   she   was   there   about   9   pm   on   the   24th   with   a   man   who   looked   like   a   naval   officer . 
They   can't   both   be   right ,    but   either   of   them's   probable . 
Of   course ,    there's   a   host   of   other   identifications ,    but   most   of   them   not   good   for   much . 
We   haven't   been   able   to   trace   the B . 
Well ,    you   seem   to   be   doing   all   that   can   be   done ,    Crome ,    said   the   Assistant   Commissioner . 
What   do   you   say , .    Poirot ? 
Does   any   line   of   inquiry   suggest   itself   to   you ? 
It   seems   to   me   that   there   is   one   very   important   clue   the   discovery   of   the   motive . 
 Isn't   that   what   you   called   it ,    doctor ? 
a ,    oui ,    said   Poirot . 
There   is   an   alphabetical   complex . 
But   why   an   alphabetical   complex ? 
A   madman   in   particular   has   always   a   very   strong   reason   for   the   crimes   he   commits . 
Come ,    come , .    Poirot ,    said   Crome . 
Look   at   Stoneman   in   1929 . 
He   ended   by   trying   to   do   away   with   anyone   who   annoyed   him   in   the   slightest   degree . 
But   if   you   are   a   sufficiently   great   and   important   person ,    it   is   necessary   that   you   should   be   spared   small   annoyances . 
If   a   fly   settles   on   your   forehead   again   and   again ,    maddening   you   by   its   tickling   what   do   you   do ? 
You   endeavour   to   kill   that   fly . 
You   have   no   qualms   about   it . 
You   are   important   the   fly   is   not . 
You   kill   the   fly   and   the   annoyance   ceases . 
Your   action   appears   to   you   sane   and   justifiable . 
Another   reason   for   killing   a   fly   is   if   you   have   a   strong   passion   for   hygiene . 
The   fly   is   a   potential   source   of   danger   to   the   community   the   fly   must   go . 
So   works   the   mind   of   the   mentally   deranged   criminal . 
But   consider   now   this   case   if   the   victims   are   alphabetically   selected ,    then   they   are   not   being   removed   because   they   are   a   source   of   annoyance   to   the   murderer   personally . 
It   would   be   too   much   of   a   coincidence   to   combine   the   two . 
 That's   a   point ,    said   Dr .    Thompson . 
I   remember   a   case   where   a   woman's   husband   was   condemned   to   death . 
She   started   killing   the   members   of   the   jury   one   by   one . 
Quite   a   time   before   the   crimes   were   connected   up . 
But   as .    Poirot   says ,    there   isn't   such   a   thing   as   a   murderer   who   commits   crimes   at   random . 
Either   he   removes   people   who   stand    ( however   insignificantly )    in   his   path ,    or   else   he   kills   by   conviction . 
He   removes   clergymen ,    or   policemen ,    or   prostitutes   because   he   firmly   believes   that   they   should   be   removed . 
That   doesn't   apply   here   either   as   far   as   I   can   see . 
Mrs .    Ascher   and   Betty   Barnard   cannot   be   linked   as   members   of   the   same   class . 
Of   course ,    it's   possible   that   there   is   a   sex   complex . 
Both   victims   have   been   women . 
We   can   tell   better ,    of   course ,    after   the   next   crime
For   God's   sake ,    Thompson ,    don't   speak   so   glibly   of   the   next   crime ,    said   Sir   Lionel   irritably . 
 We're   going   to   do   all   we   can   to   prevent   another   crime . 
Dr .    Thompson   held   his   peace   and   blew   his   nose   with   some   violence . 
Have   it   your   own   way ,    the   noise   seemed   to   say . 
The   Assistant   Commissioner   turned   to   Poirot . 
I   see   what   you're   driving   at ,    but   I'm   not   quite   clear   yet . 
I   ask   myself ,    said   Poirot ,    what   passes   exactly   in   the   mind   of   the   murderer ? 
He   kills ,    it   would   seem   from   his   letters ,    pour   le   sport   to   amuse   himself . 
Can   that   really   be   true ? 
And   even   if   it   is   true ,    on   what   principle   does   he   select   his   victims   apart   from   the   merely   alphabetical   one ? 
If   he   kills   merely   to   amuse   himself   he   would   not   advertise   the   fact ,    since ,    otherwise ,    he   could   kill   with   impunity . 
But   no ,    he   seeks ,    as   we   all   agree ,    to   make   the   splash   in   the   public   eye   to   assert   his   personality . 
In   what   way   has   his   personality   been   suppressed   that   one   can   connect   with   the   two   victims   he   has   so   far   selected ? 
A   final   suggestion :    Is   his   motive   direct   personal   hatred   of   me ,    of   Hercule   Poirot ? 
Does   he   challenge   me   in   public   because   I   have    ( unknown   to   myself )    vanquished   him   somewhere   in   the   course   of   my   career ? 
Or   is   his   animosity   impersonal   directed   against   a   foreigner ? 
And   if   so ,    what   again   has   led   to   that ? 
What   injury   has   he   suffered   at   a   foreigner's   hand ? 
All   very   suggestive   questions ,    said   Dr .    Thompson . 
Inspector   Crome   cleared   his   throat . 
A   little   unanswerable   at   present ,    perhaps . 
Nevertheless ,    my   friend ,    said   Poirot ,    looking   straight   at   him ,    it   is   there ,    in   those   questions ,    that   the   solution   lies . 
If   we   knew   the   exact   reason   fantastic ,    perhaps ,    to   us   but   logical   to   him   of   why   our   madman   commits   these   crimes ,    we   should   know ,    perhaps ,    who   the   next   victim   is   likely   to   be . 
He   selects   them   haphazard   that's   my   opinion . 
The   magnanimous   murderer ,    said   Poirot . 
I   said   the   magnanimous   murderer ! 
Franz   Ascher   would   have   been   arrested   for   the   murder   of   his   wife   Donald   Fraser   might   have   been   arrested   for   the   murder   of   Betty   Barnard   if   it   had   not   been   for   the   warning   letters   of B .    Is   he ,    then ,    so   soft-hearted   that   he   cannot   bear   others   to   suffer   for   something   they   did   not   do ? 
 I've   known   stranger   things   happen ,    said   Dr .    Thompson . 
 I've   known   men   who've   killed   half   a   dozen   victims   all   broken   up   because   one   of   their   victims   didn't   die   instantaneously   and   suffered   pain . 
All   the   same ,    I   don't   think   that   that   is   our   fellow's   reason . 
He   wants   the   credit   of   these   crimes   for   his   own   honour   and   glory . 
 That's   the   explanation   that   fits   best . 
 We've   come   to   no   decision   about   the   publicity   business ,    said   the   Assistant   Commissioner . 
If   I   may   make   a   suggestion ,    sir ,    said   Crome . 
Why   not   wait   till   the   receipt   of   the   next   letter ? 
Make   it   public   then   special   editions ,    etc . 
It   will   make   a   bit   of   a   panic   in   the   particular   town   named ,    but   it   will   put   everyone   whose   name   begins   with on   their   guard ,    and   it'll   put B on   his   mettle . 
 He'll   be   determined   to   succeed . 
And   that's   when   we'll   get   him . 
How   little   we   knew   what   the   future   held . 
I   well   remember   the   arrival   of B   C's   third   letter . 
I   may   say   that   all   precautions   had   been   taken   so   that   when B resumed   his   campaign   there   should   be   no   unnecessary   delays . 
A   young   sergeant   from   Scotland   Yard   was   attached   to   the   house   and   if   Poirot   and   I   were   out   it   was   his   duty   to   open   anything   that   came   so   as   to   be   able   to   communicate   with   headquarters   without   loss   of   time . 
As   the   days   succeeded   each   other   we   had   all   grown   more   and   more   on   edge . 
Inspector   Crome's   aloof   and   superior   manner   grew   more   and   more   aloof   and   superior   as   one   by   one   his   more   hopeful   clues   petered   out . 
The   vague   descriptions   of   men   said   to   have   been   seen   with   Betty   Barnard   proved   useless . 
Various   cars   noticed   in   the   vicinity   of   Bexhill   and   Cooden   were   either   accounted   for   or   could   not   be   traced . 
The   investigation   of   purchases   of B railway   guides   caused   inconvenience   and   trouble   to   heaps   of   innocent   people . 
As   for   ourselves ,    each   time   the   postman's   familiar   rat-tat   sounded   on   the   door ,    our   hearts   beat   faster   with   apprehension . 
At   least   that   was   true   for   me ,    and   I   cannot   but   believe   that   Poirot   experienced   the   same   sensation . 
He   was ,    I   knew ,    deeply   unhappy   over   the   case . 
He   refused   to   leave   London ,    preferring   to   be   on   the   spot   in   case   of   emergency . 
In   those   hot   dog   days   even   his   moustaches   drooped   neglected   for   once   by   their   owner . 
It   was   on   a   Friday   that B   C's   third   letter   came . 
The   evening   post   arrived   about   ten clock . 
When   we   heard   the   familiar   step   and   the   brisk   rat-tat ,    I   rose   and   went   along   to   the   box . 
There   were   four   or   five   letters ,    I   remember . 
The   last   one   I   looked   at   was   addressed   in   printed   characters . 
Poirot ,    I   cried   My   voice   died   away . 
Every   moment   may   be   needed . 
We   must   make   our   plans . 
I   tore   open   the   letter    ( Poirot   for   once   did   not   reproach   me   with   untidiness )    and   extracted   the   printed   sheet . 
Read   it ,    said   Poirot . 
Poor   Mr .    Poirot ,    Not   so   good   at   these   little   criminal   matters   as   you   thought   yourself ,    are   you ? 
Rather   past   your   prime ,    perhaps ? 
Let   us   see   if   you   can   do   any   better   this   time . 
This   time   it's   an   easy   one . 
Do   try   and   do   something   about   it ! 
 It's   a   bit   dull   having   it   all   my   own   way ,    you   know ! 
Churston ,    I   said ,    jumping   to   our   own   copy   of   an B .    Let's   see   where   it   is . 
Hastings ,    Poirot's   voice   came   sharply   and   interrupted   me . 
When   was   that   letter   written ? 
Is   there   a   date   on   it ? 
I   glanced   at   the   letter   in   my   hand . 
Written   on   the   27th ,    I   announced . 
Did   I   hear   you   aright ,    Hastings ? 
Did   he   give   the   date   of   the   murder   as   the   30th ? 
Let   me   see ,    that   s
Bon   Dieu ,    Hastings   do   you   not   realise ? 
His   eloquent   hand   pointed   to   the   calendar   on   the   wall . 
I   caught   up   the   daily   paper   to   confirm   it . 
But   why   how   I   stammered . 
Poirot   caught   up   the   torn   envelope   from   the   floor . 
Something   unusual   about   the   address   had   registered   itself   vaguely   in   my   brain ,    but   I   had   been   too   anxious   to   get   at   the   contents   of   the   letter   to   pay   more   than   fleeting   attention   to   it . 
Poirot   was   at   the   time   living   in   Whitehaven   Mansions . 
The   address   ran : .    Hercule   Poirot ,    Whitehorse   Mansions ,    across   the   corner   was   scrawled :    Not   known   at   Whitehorse   Mansions ,    EC1 ,    nor   at   Whitehorse   Court   try   Whitehaven   Mansions . 
Does   even   chance   aid   this   madman ? 
Vite   vite   we   must   get   on   to   Scotland   Yard . 
A   minute   or   two   later   we   were   speaking   to   Crome   over   the   wire . 
For   once   the   self-controlled   inspector   did   not   reply   Oh ,    yes ? 
Instead   a   quickly   stifled   curse   came   to   his   lips . 
He   heard   what   we   had   to   say ,    then   rang   off   in   order   to   get   a   trunk   connection   to   Churston   as   rapidly   as   possible . 
C   est   trop   tard ,    murmured   Poirot . 
You   can't   be   sure   of   that ,    I   argued ,    though   without   any   great   hope . 
He   glanced   at   the   clock . 
An   hour   and   forty   minutes   to   go . 
Is   it   likely   that B will   have   held   his   hand   so   long ? 
I   opened   the   railway   guide   I   had   previously   taken   from   its   shelf . 
Churston ,    Devon ,    I   read ,    from   Paddington   204   miles . 
It   sounds   a   fairly   small   place . 
Surely   our   man   will   be   bound   to   be   noticed   there . 
Even   so ,    another   life   will   have   been   taken ,    murmured   Poirot . 
I   imagine   train   will   be   quicker   than   car . 
 There's   a   midnight   train   sleeping   car   to   Newton   Abbot   gets   there   6 : 8   am ,    and   then   Churston   at   7 : 15 . 
We   will   take   that ,    Hastings . 
 You'll   hardly   have   time   to   get   news   before   we   start . 
If   we   receive   bad   news   tonight   or   tomorrow   morning   does   it   matter   which ? 
I   put   a   few   things   together   in   a   suitcase   while   Poirot   once   more   rang   up   Scotland   Yard . 
A   few   minutes   later   he   came   into   the   bedroom   and   demanded : 
Mais   qu   est   ce   que   vous   faites ? 
I   was   packing   for   you . 
I   thought   it   would   save   time . 
Vous   prouvez   trop'd   motion ,    Hastings . 
It   affects   your   hands   and   your   wits . 
Is   that   a   way   to   fold   a   coat ? 
And   regard   what   you   have   done   to   my   pyjamas . 
If   the   hairwash   breaks   what   will   befall   them ? 
Good   heavens ,    Poirot ,    I   cried ,    this   is   a   matter   of   life   and   death . 
What   does   it   matter   what   happens   to   our   clothes ? 
You   have   no   sense   of   proportion ,    Hastings . 
We   cannot   catch   a   train   earlier   than   the   time   that   it   leaves ,    and   to   ruin   one's   clothes   will   not   be   the   least   helpful   in   preventing   a   murder . 
Taking   his   suitcase   from   me   firmly ,    he   took   the   packing   into   his   own   hands . 
He   explained   that   we   were   to   take   the   letter   and   envelope   to   Paddington   with   us . 
Someone   from   Scotland   Yard   would   meet   us   there . 
When   we   arrived   on   the   platform   the   first   person   we   saw   was   Inspector   Crome . 
He   answered   Poirot's   look   of   inquiry . 
All   men   available   are   on   the   lookout . 
All   persons   whose   name   begins   with are   being   warned   by   phone   when   possible . 
Poirot   gave   it   to   him . 
He   examined   it ,    swearing   softly   under   his   breath . 
Of   all   the   damned   luck . 
The   stars   in   their   courses   fight   for   the   fellow . 
You   don't   think ,    I   suggested ,    that   it   was   done   on   purpose ? 
 He's   got   his   rules   crazy   rules   and   abides   by   them . 
He   makes   a   point   of   that . 
 That's   where   his   boastfulness   comes   in . 
I   wonder   now   I'd   almost   bet   the   chap   drinks   White   Horse   whisky . 
Ah , est   ing   nieux ,    a ! 
said   Poirot ,    driven   to   admiration   in   spite   of   himself . 
He   prints   the   letter   and   the   bottle   is   in   front   of   him . 
 That's   the   way   of   it ,    said   Crome . 
 We've   all   of   us   done   much   the   same   thing   one   time   or   another ,    unconsciously   copied   something   that's   just   under   the   eye . 
He   started   off   White   and   went   on   horse   instead   of   haven    . 
The   inspector ,    we   found ,    was   also   travelling   by   the   train . 
Even   if   by   some   unbelievable   luck   nothing   happened ,    Churston   is   the   place   to   be . 
Our   murderer   is   there ,    or   has   been   there   today . 
One   of   my   men   is   on   the   phone   here   up   to   the   last   minute   in   case   anything   comes   through . 
Just   as   the   train   was   leaving   the   station   we   saw   a   man   running   down   the   platform . 
He   reached   the   inspector's   window   and   called   up   something . 
As   the   train   drew   out   of   the   station   Poirot   and   I   hurried   along   the   corridor   and   tapped   on   the   door   of   the   inspector's   sleeper . 
 It's   about   as   bad   as   it   can   be . 
Sir   Carmichael   Clarke   has   been   found   with   his   head   bashed   in . 
Sir   Carmichael   Clarke ,    although   his   name   was   not   very   well   known   to   the   general   public ,    was   a   man   of   some   eminence . 
He   had   been   in   his   time   a   very   well-known   throat   specialist . 
Retiring   from   his   profession   very   comfortably   off ,    he   had   been   able   to   indulge   what   had   been   one   of   the   chief   passions   of   his   life   a   collection   of   Chinese   pottery   and   porcelain . 
A   few   years   later ,    inheriting   a   considerable   fortune   from   an   elderly   uncle ,    he   had   been   able   to   indulge   his   passion   to   the   full ,    and   he   was   now   the   possessor   of   one   of   the   best-known   collections   of   Chinese   art . 
He   was   married   but   had   no   children   and   lived   in   a   house   he   had   built   for   himself   near   the   Devon   coast ,    only   coming   to   London   on   rare   occasions   such   as   when   some   important   sale   was   on . 
It   did   not   require   much   reflection   to   realize   that   his   death ,    following   that   of   the   young   and   pretty   Betty   Barnard ,    would   provide   the   best   newspaper   sensation   for   years . 
The   fact   that   it   was   August   and   that   the   papers   were   hard   up   for   subject   matter   would   make   matters   worse . 
Eh   bien ,    said   Poirot . 
It   is   possible   that   publicity   may   do   what   private   efforts   have   failed   to   do . 
The   whole   country   now   will   be   looking   for B . 
Unfortunately ,    I   said ,    that's   what   he   wants . 
But   it   may ,    all   the   same ,    be   his   undoing . 
Gratified   by   success ,    he   may   become   careless   That   is   what   I   hope   that   he   may   be   drunk   with   his   own   cleverness . 
How   odd   all   this   is ,    Poirot ,    I   exclaimed ,    struck   suddenly   by   an   idea . 
Do   you   know ,    this   is   the   first   crime   of   this   kind   that   you   and   I   have   worked   on   together ? 
All   our   murders   have   been   well ,    private   murders ,    so   to   speak . 
You   are   quite   right ,    my   friend . 
Always ,    up   to   now ,    it   has   fallen   to   our   lot   to   work   from   the   inside . 
It   has   been   the   history   of   the   victim   that   was   important . 
The   important   points   have   been :    Who   benefited   by   the   death ? 
What   opportunities   had   those   round   him   to   commit   the   crime ?    It   has   always   been   the   crime   intime .    Here ,    for   the   first   time   in   our   association ,    it   is   cold-blooded ,    impersonal   murder . 
I   felt   from   the   first ,    when   I   read   the   original   letter ,    that   there   was   something   wrong   misshapen    . 
He   made   an   impatient   gesture . 
One   must   not   give   way   to   the   nerves   This   is   no   worse   than   any   ordinary   crime    . 
Is   it   worse   to   take   the   life   or   lives   of   strangers   than   to   take   the   life   of   someone   near   and   dear   to   you   someone   who   trusts   and   believes   in   you ,    perhaps ? 
 It's   worse   because   it's   mad    . 
It   is   only   more   difficult . 
No ,    no ,    I   do   not   agree   with   you . 
It   should   be   easier   to   discover   because   it   is   mad . 
A   crime   committed   by   someone   shrewd   and   sane   would   be   far   more   complicated . 
Here ,    if   one   could   but   hit   on   the   idea   This   alphabetical   business ,    it   has   discrepancies . 
If   I   could   once   see   the   idea   then   everything   would   be   clear   and   simple    . 
He   sighed   and   shook   his   head . 
These   crimes   must   not   go   on . 
Soon ,    soon ,    I   must   see   the   truth   Go ,    Hastings . 
There   will   be   much   to   do   tomorrow . 
Churston ,    lying   as   it   does   between   Brixham   on   the   one   side   and   Paignton   and   Torquay   on   the   other ,    occupies   a   position   about   halfway   round   the   curve   of   Torbay . 
Until   about   ten   years   ago   it   was   merely   a   golf   links   and   below   the   links   a   green   sweep   of   countryside   dropping   down   to   the   sea   with   only   a   farmhouse   or   two   in   the   way   of   human   occupation . 
But   of   late   years   there   had   been   big   building   developments   between   Churston   and   Paignton   and   the   coastline   is   now   dotted   with   small   houses   and   bungalows ,    new   roads ,    etc . 
Sir   Carmichael   Clarke   had   purchased   a   site   of   some   two   acres   commanding   an   uninterrupted   view   of   the   sea . 
The   house   he   had   built   was   of   modern   design   a   white   rectangle   that   was   not   unpleasing   to   the   eye . 
Apart   from   two   big   galleries   that   housed   his   collection   it   was   not   a   large   house . 
Our   arrival   there   took   place   about   8   am . 
A   local   police   officer   had   met   us   at   the   station   and   had   put   us   au   courant   of   the   situation . 
Sir   Carmichael   Clarke ,    it   seemed ,    had   been   in   the   habit   of   taking   a   stroll   after   dinner   every   evening . 
When   the   police   rang   up   at   some   time   after   eleven   it   was   ascertained   that   he   had   not   returned . 
Since   his   stroll   usually   followed   the   same   course ,    it   was   not   long   before   a   search   party   discovered   his   body . 
Death   was   due   to   a   crashing   blow   with   some   heavy   instrument   on   the   back   of   the   head . 
An   open B had   been   placed   face   downwards   on   the   dead   body . 
We   arrived   at   Combeside    ( as   the   house   was   called )    at   about   eight clock . 
The   door   was   opened   by   an   elderly   butler   whose   shaking   hands   and   disturbed   face   showed   how   much   the   tragedy   had   affected   him . 
Good   morning ,    Deveril ,    said   the   police   officer . 
Good   morning ,    Mr .    Wells . 
These   are   the   gentlemen   from   London ,    Deveril . 
He   ushered   us   into   a   long   dining   room   where   breakfast   was   laid . 
 I'll   get   Mr .    Franklin . 
A   minute   or   two   later   a   big   fair-haired   man   with   a   sunburnt   face   entered   the   room . 
This   was   Franklin   Clarke ,    the   dead   man's   only   brother . 
He   had   the   resolute   competent   manner   of   a   man   accustomed   to   meeting   with   emergencies . 
Inspector   Wells   made   the   introductions . 
This   is   Inspector   Crome   of   the   CID ,    Mr .    Hercule   Poirot   and   er   Captain   Hayter . 
Hastings ,    I   corrected   coldly . 
Franklin   Clarke   shook   hands   with   each   of   us   in   turn   and   in   each   case   the   handshake   was   accompanied   by   a   piercing   look . 
Let   me   offer   you   some   breakfast ,    he   said . 
We   can   discuss   the   position   as   we   eat . 
There   were   no   dissentient   voices   and   we   were   soon   doing   justice   to   excellent   eggs   and   bacon   and   coffee . 
Now   for   it ,    said   Franklin   Clarke . 
Inspector   Wells   gave   me   a   rough   idea   of   the   position   last   night   though   I   may   say   it   seemed   one   of   the   wildest   tales   I   have   ever   heard . 
Am   I   really   to   believe ,    Inspector   Crome ,    that   my   poor   brother   is   the   victim   of   a   homicidal   maniac ,    that   this   is   the   third   murder   that   has   occurred   and   that   in   each   case   an B railway   guide   has   been   deposited   beside   the   body ? 
That   is   substantially   the   position ,    Mr .    Clarke . 
What   earthly   benefit   can   accrue   from   such   a   crime   even   in   the   most   diseased   imagination ? 
Poirot   nodded   his   head   in   approval . 
You   go   straight   to   the   point ,    Mr .    Franklin ,    he   said . 
 It's   not   much   good   looking   for   motives   at   this   stage ,    Mr .    Clarke ,    said   Inspector   Crome . 
 That's   a   matter   for   an   alienist   though   I   may   say   that   I've   had   a   certain   experience   of   criminal   lunacy   and   that   the   motives   are   usually   grossly   inadequate . 
There   is   a   desire   to   assert   one's   personality ,    to   make   a   splash   in   the   public   eye   in   fact ,    to   be   a   somebody   instead   of   a   nonentity . 
Is   that   true , .    Poirot ? 
His   appeal   to   the   older   man   was   not   too   well   received   by   Inspector   Crome ,    who   frowned . 
Absolutely   true ,    replied   my   friend . 
At   any   rate   such   a   man   cannot   escape   detection   long ,    said   Clarke   thoughtfully . 
Ah ,    but   they   are   cunning   ces   gens ! 
And   you   must   remember   such   a   type   has   usually   all   the   outer   signs   of   insignificance   he   belongs   to   the   class   of   person   who   is   usually   passed   over   and   ignored   or   even   laughed   at ! 
Will   you   let   me   have   a   few   facts ,    please ,    Mr .    Clarke ,    said   Crome ,    breaking   in   on   the   conversation . 
Your   brother ,    I   take   it ,    was   in   his   usual   health   and   spirits   yesterday ? 
He   received   no   unexpected   letters ? 
I   should   say   he   was   quite   his   usual   self . 
Not   upset   and   worried   in   any   way . 
To   be   upset   and   worried   was   my   poor   brother's   normal   condition . 
You   may   not   know   that   my   sister-in-law ,    Lady   Clarke ,    is   in   very   bad   health . 
Frankly ,    between   ourselves ,    she   is   suffering   from   an   incurable   cancer ,    and   cannot   live   very   much   longer . 
Her   illness   has   preyed   terribly   on   my   brother's   mind . 
I   myself   returned   from   the   East   not   long   ago   and   I   was   shocked   at   the   change   in   him . 
Supposing ,    Mr .    Clarke ,    that   your   brother   had   been   found   shot   at   the   foot   of   a   cliff   or   shot   with   a   revolver   beside   him . 
What   would   have   been   your   first   thought ? 
Quite   frankly ,    I   should   have   jumped   to   the   conclusion   that   it   was   suicide ,    said   Clarke . 
A   fact   that   repeats   itself . 
It   is   of   no   matter . 
Anyway ,    it   wasn't   suicide ,    said   Crome   with   a   touch   of   curtness . 
Now   I   believe ,    Mr .    Clarke ,    that   it   was   your   brother's   habit   to   go   for   a   stroll   every   evening ? 
Well ,    not   if   it   was   pouring   with   rain ,    naturally . 
And   everyone   in   the   house   knew   of   this   habit ? 
I   don't   quite   know   what   you   mean   by   outside . 
The   gardener   may   have   been   aware   of   it   or   not ,    I   don't   know . 
Strictly   speaking ,    we   haven't   got   a   village . 
 There's   a   post   office   and   cottages   at   Churston   Ferrers   but   there's   no   village   or   shops . 
I   suppose   a   stranger   hanging   round   the   place   would   be   fairly   easily   noticed ? 
In   August   all   this   part   of   the   world   is   a   seething   mass   of   strangers . 
They   come   over   every   day   from   Brixham   and   Torquay   and   Paignton   in   cars   and   buses   and   on   foot . 
Broadsands ,    which   is   down   there    ( he   pointed )  ,    is   a   very   popular   beach   and   so   is   Elbury   Cove   it's   a   well-known   beauty   spot   and   people   come   there   and   picnic . 
 You've   no   idea   how   beautiful   and   peaceful   this   part   of   the   world   is   in   June   and   the   beginning   of   July . 
So   you   don't   think   a   stranger   would   be   noticed ? 
Not   unless   he   looked   well ,    off   his   head . 
This   man   doesn't   look   off   his   head ,    said   Crome   with   certainty . 
You   see   what   I'm   getting   at ,    Mr .    Clarke . 
This   man   must   have   been   spying   out   the   land   beforehand   and   discovered   your   brother's   habit   of   taking   an   evening   stroll . 
I   suppose ,    by   the   way ,    that   no   strange   man   came   up   to   the   house   and   asked   to   see   Sir   Carmichael   yesterday ? 
Not   that   I   know   of   but   we'll   ask   Deveril . 
He   rang   the   bell   and   put   the   question   to   the   butler . 
No ,    sir ,    no   one   came   to   see   Sir   Carmichael . 
And   I   didn't   notice   anyone   hanging   about   the   house   either . 
No   more   did   the   maids ,    because   I've   asked   them . 
The   butler   waited   a   moment ,    then   inquired :    Is   that   all ,    sir ? 
Yes ,    Deveril ,    you   can   go . 
The   butler   withdrew ,    drawing   back   in   the   doorway   to   let   a   young   woman   pass . 
Franklin   Clarke   rose   as   she   came   in . 
This   is   Miss   Grey ,    gentlemen . 
My   attention   was   caught   at   once   by   the   girl's   extraordinary   Scandinavian   fairness . 
She   had   the   almost   colourless   ash   hair   light-grey   eyes   and   transparent   glowing   pallor   that   one   finds   amongst   Norwegians   and   Swedes . 
She   looked   about   twenty-seven   and   seemed   to   be   as   efficient   as   she   was   decorative . 
Can   I   help   you   in   any   way ? 
she   asked   as   she   sat   down . 
Clarke   brought   her   a   cup   of   coffee ,    but   she   refused   any   food . 
Did   you   deal   with   Sir   Carmichael's   correspondence ? 
Yes ,    all   of   it . 
I   suppose   he   never   received   a   letter   or   letters   signed B ? 
No ,    I'm   sure   he   didn't . 
He   didn't   mention   having   seen   anyone   hanging   about   during   his   evening   walks   lately ? 
He   never   mentioned   anything   of   the   kind . 
And   you   yourself   have   noticed   no   strangers ? 
Of   course ,    there   are   a   lot   of   people   what   you   might   call   wandering   about   at   this   time   of   year . 
One   often   meets   people   strolling   with   an   aimless   look   across   the   golf   links   or   down   the   lanes   to   the   sea . 
In   the   same   way ,    practically   everyone   one   sees   this   time   of   year   is   a   stranger . 
Inspector   Crome   asked   to   be   taken   over   the   ground   of   Sir   Carmichael's   nightly   walk . 
Franklin   Clarke   led   the   way   through   the   french   window ,    and   Miss   Grey   accompanied   us . 
She   and   I   were   a   little   behind   the   others . 
All   this   must   have   been   a   terrible   shock   to   you   all ,    I   said . 
I   had   gone   to   bed   last   night   when   the   police   rang   up . 
I   heard   voices   downstairs   and   at   last   I   came   out   and   asked   what   was   the   matter . 
Deveril   and   Mr .    Clarke   were   just   setting   out   with   lanterns . 
What   time   did   Sir   Carmichael   usually   come   back   from   his   walk ? 
About   a   quarter   to   ten . 
He   used   to   let   himself   in   by   the   side   door   and   then   sometimes   he   went   straight   to   bed ,    sometimes   to   the   gallery   where   his   collections   were . 
That   is   why ,    unless   the   police   had   rung   up ,    he   would   probably   not   have   been   missed   till   they   went   to   call   him   this   morning . 
It   must   have   been   a   terrible   shock   to   his   wife ? 
Lady   Clarke   is   kept   under   morphia   a   good   deal . 
I   think   she   is   in   too   dazed   a   condition   to   appreciate   what   goes   on   round   her . 
We   had   come   out   through   a   garden   gate   on   to   the   golf   links . 
Crossing   a   corner   of   them ,    we   passed   over   a   stile   into   a   steep ,    winding   lane . 
This   leads   down   to   Elbury   Cove ,    explained   Franklin   Clarke . 
But   two   years   ago   they   made   a   new   road   leading   from   the   main   road   to   Broadsands   and   on   to   Elbury ,    so   that   now   this   lane   is   practically   deserted . 
We   went   on   down   the   lane . 
At   the   foot   of   it   a   path   led   between   brambles   and   bracken   down   to   the   sea . 
Suddenly   we   came   out   on   a   grassy   ridge   overlooking   the   sea   and   a   beach   of   glistening   white   stones . 
All   round   dark   green   trees   ran   down   to   the   sea . 
It   was   an   enchanting   spot   white ,    deep   green   and   sapphire   blue . 
Clarke   turned   to   me   eagerly . 
Why   people   want   to   go   abroad   to   the   Riviera   when   they've   got   this ! 
 I've   wandered   all   over   the   world   in   my   time   and ,    honest   to   God ,    I've   never   seen   anything   as   beautiful . 
Then ,    as   though   ashamed   of   his   eagerness ,    he   said   in   a   more   matter-of-fact   tone : 
This   was   my   brother's   evening   walk . 
He   came   as   far   as   here ,    then   back   up   the   path ,    and   turning   to   the   right   instead   of   the   left ,    went   past   the   farm   and   across   the   fields   back   to   the   house . 
We   proceeded   on   our   way   till   we   came   to   a   spot   near   the   hedge ,    halfway   across   the   field   where   the   body   had   been   found . 
The   man   stood   here   in   the   shadow . 
Your   brother   would   have   noticed   nothing   till   the   blow   fell . 
The   girl   at   my   side   gave   a   quick   shiver . 
 It's   pretty   beastly ,    but   it's   no   use   shirking   facts . 
Thora   Grey   the   name   suited   her . 
We   went   back   to   the   house   where   the   body   had   been   taken   after   being   photographed . 
As   we   mounted   the   wide   staircase   the   doctor   came   out   of   a   room ,    black   bag   in   hand . 
Anything   to   tell   us ,    doctor ? 
The   doctor   shook   his   head . 
 I'll   keep   the   technicalities   for   the   inquest . 
Anyway ,    he   didn't   suffer . 
Death   must   have   been   instantaneous . 
 I'll   just   go   in   and   see   Lady   Clarke . 
A   hospital   nurse   came   out   of   a   room   farther   along   the   corridor   and   the   doctor   joined   her . 
We   went   into   the   room   out   of   which   the   doctor   had   come . 
I   came   out   again   rather   quickly . 
Thora   Grey   was   still   standing   at   the   head   of   the   stairs . 
There   was   a   queer   scared   expression   on   her   face . 
I   was   thinking ,    she   said ,    about . 
I   stared   at   her   stupidly . 
 It's   got   to   be   stopped . 
Clarke   came   out   of   the   room   behind   me . 
What's   got   to   be   stopped ,    Thora ? 
His   jaw   thrust   itself   out   aggressively . 
I   want   to   talk   to .    Poirot   some   time   Is   Crome   any   good ? 
He   shot   the   words   out   unexpectedly . 
I   replied   that   he   was   supposed   to   be   a   very   clever   officer . 
My   voice   was   perhaps   not   as   enthusiastic   as   it   might   have   been . 
 He's   got   a   damned   offensive   manner ,    said   Clarke . 
Looks   as   though   he   knows   everything   and   what   does   he   know ? 
Nothing   at   all   as   far   as   I   can   make   out . 
He   was   silent   for   a   minute   or   two . 
M .    Poirot's   the   man   for   my   money . 
But   we'll   talk   of   that   later . 
He   went   along   the   passage   and   tapped   at   the   same   door   as   the   doctor   had   entered . 
The   girl   was   staring   in   front   of   her . 
What   are   you   thinking   of ,    Miss   Grey ? 
She   turned   her   eyes   towards   me . 
 I'm   wondering   where   he   is   now   the   murderer ,    I   mean . 
 It's   not   twelve   hours   yet   since   it   happened   Oh ! 
 aren't   there   any   real   clairvoyants   who   could   see   where   he   is   now   and   what   he   is   doing    . 
The   police   are   searching   I   began . 
My   commonplace   words   broke   the   spell . 
Thora   Grey   pulled   herself   together . 
In   her   turn   she   descended   the   staircase . 
I   stood   there   a   moment   longer   conning   her   words   over   in   my   mind . 
NOT   FROM   CAPTAIN   HASTINGS   PERSONAL   NARRATIVE
Mr .    Alexander   Bonaparte   Cust   came   out   with   the   rest   of   the   audience   from   the   Torquay   Palladium ,    where   he   had   been   seeing   and   hearing   that   highly   emotional   film ,    Not   a   Sparrow    . 
He   blinked   a   little   as   he   came   out   into   the   afternoon   sunshine   and   peered   round   him   in   that   lost-dog   fashion   that   was   characteristic   of   him . 
He   murmured   to   himself :    It's   an   idea    . 
Newsboys   passed   along   crying   out : 
Latest   Homicidal   Maniac   at   Churston    . 
They   carried   placards   on   which   was   written : 
Mr .    Cust   fumbled   in   his   pocket ,    found   a   coin ,    and   bought   a   paper . 
He   did   not   open   it   at   once . 
Entering   the   Princess   Gardens ,    he   slowly   made   his   way   to   a   shelter   facing   Torquay   harbour . 
He   sat   down   and   opened   the   paper . 
Only   a   month   ago   England   was   shocked   and   startled   by   the   murder   of   a   young   girl ,    Elizabeth   Barnard ,    at   Bexhill . 
It   may   be   remembered   that   an B railway   guide   figured   in   the   case . 
An B was   also   found   by   the   dead   body   of   Sir   Carmichael   Clarke ,    and   the   police   incline   to   the   belief   that   both   crimes   were   committed   by   the   same   person . 
Can   it   be   possible   that   a   homicidal   murderer   is   going   the   round   of   our   seaside   resorts ? 
A   young   man   in   flannel   trousers   and   a   bright   blue   Aertex   shirt   who   was   sitting   beside   Mr .    Cust   remarked : 
His   hands ,    the   young   man   noticed ,    were   trembling   so   that   he   could   hardly   hold   the   paper . 
You   never   know   with   lunatics ,    said   the   young   man   chattily . 
They   don't   always   look   barmy ,    you   know . 
Often   they   seem   just   the   same   as   you   or   me    . 
I   suppose   they   do ,    said   Mr .    Cust . 
Sometimes   it's   the   war   what   unhinged   them   never   been   right   since . 
I   I   expect   you're   right . 
I   don't   hold   with   wars ,    said   the   young   man . 
His   companion   turned   on   him . 
I   don't   hold   with   plague   and   sleeping   sickness   and   famine   and   cancer   but   they   happen   all   the   same ! 
War's   preventable ,    said   the   young   man   with   assurance . 
He   laughed   for   some   time . 
The   young   man   was   slightly   alarmed . 
 He's   a   bit   batty   himself ,    he   thought . 
Sorry ,    sir ,    I   expect   you   were   in   the   war . 
I   was ,    said   Mr .    Cust . 
My   head's   never   been   right   since . 
It   aches ,    you   know . 
 I'm   sorry   about   that ,    said   the   young   man   awkwardly . 
Sometimes   I   hardly   know   what   I'm   doing    . 
Well ,    I   must   be   getting   along ,    said   the   young   man   and   removed   himself   hurriedly . 
He   knew   what   people   were   once   they   began   to   talk   about   their   health . 
Mr .    Cust   remained   with   his   paper . 
People   passed   to   and   fro   in   front   of   him . 
Most   of   them   were   talking   of   the   murder    . 
Awful   do   you   think   it   was   anything   to   do   with   the   Chinese ? 
 Wasn't   the   waitress   in   a   Chinese   caf    . 
Actually   on   the   golf   links    . 
I   heard   it   was   on   the   beach    . 
but ,    darling ,    we   took   our   tea   to   Elbury   only   yesterday    . 
police   are   sure   to   get   him    . 
say   he   may   be   arrested   any   minute   now    . 
quite   likely   he's   in   Torquay   that   other   woman   was   who   murdered   the   what   do   you   call   ems    . 
Mr .    Cust   folded   up   the   paper   very   neatly   and   laid   it   on   the   seat . 
Then   he   rose   and   walked   sedately   along   towards   the   town . 
Girls   passed   him ,    girls   in   white   and   pink   and   blue ,    in   summery   frocks   and   pyjamas   and   shorts . 
Their   eyes   appraised   the   men   they   passed . 
Not   once   did   their   eyes   linger   for   a   second   on   Mr .    Cust    . 
He   sat   down   at   a   little   table   and   ordered   tea   and   Devonshire   cream    . 
With   the   murder   of   Sir   Carmichael   Clarke   the B mystery   leaped   into   the   fullest   prominence . 
The   newspapers   were   full   of   nothing   else . 
All   sorts   of   clues   were   reported   to   have   been   discovered . 
Arrests   were   announced   to   be   imminent . 
There   were   photographs   of   every   person   or   place   remotely   connected   with   the   murder . 
There   were   interviews   with   anyone   who   would   give   interviews . 
There   were   questions   asked   in   Parliament . 
The   Andover   murder   was   now   bracketed   with   the   other   two . 
It   was   the   belief   of   Scotland   Yard   that   the   fullest   publicity   was   the   best   chance   of   laying   the   murderer   by   the   heels . 
The   population   of   Great   Britain   turned   itself   into   an   army   of   amateur   sleuths . 
The   Daily   Flicker   had   the   grand   inspiration   of   using   the   caption : 
HE   MAY   BE   IN   YOUR   TOWN ! 
Poirot ,    of   course ,    was   in   the   thick   of   things . 
The   letters   sent   to   him   were   published   and   facsimiled . 
He   was   abused   wholesale   for   not   having   prevented   the   crimes   and   defended   on   the   ground   that   he   was   on   the   point   of   naming   the   murderer . 
Reporters   incessantly   badgered   him   for   interviews . 
What .    Poirot   Says   Today . 
Which   was   usually   followed   by   a   half   column   of   imbecilities . 
M .    Poirot   Takes   Grave   View   of   Situation . 
M .    Poirot   on   the   Eve   of   Success . 
Captain   Hastings ,    the   great   friend   of .    Poirot ,    told   our   Special   Representative    . 
Poirot ,    I   would   cry . 
I   never   said   anything   of   the   kind . 
My   friend   would   reply   kindly : 
I   know ,    Hastings   I   know . 
The   spoken   word   and   the   written   there   is   an   astonishing   gulf   between   them . 
There   is   a   way   of   turning   sentences   that   completely   reverses   the   original   meaning . 
I   wouldn't   like   you   to   think   I'd   said
But   do   not   worry   yourself . 
All   this   is   of   no   importance . 
These   imbecilities ,    even ,    may   help . 
Eh   bien ,    said   Poirot   grimly . 
If   our   madman   reads   what   I   am   supposed   to   have   said   to   the   Daily   Blague   today ,    he   will   lose   all   respect   for   me   as   an   opponent ! 
I   am ,    perhaps ,    giving   the   impression   that   nothing   practical   was   being   done   in   the   way   of   investigations . 
On   the   contrary ,    Scotland   Yard   and   the   local   police   of   the   various   counties   were   indefatigable   in   following   up   the   smallest   clues . 
Hotels ,    people   who   kept   lodgings ,    boarding-houses   all   those   within   a   wide   radius   of   the   crimes   were   questioned   minutely . 
Hundreds   of   stories   from   imaginative   people   who   had   seen   a   man   looking   very   queer   and   rolling   his   eyes ,    or   noticed   a   man   with   a   sinister   face   slinking   along ,    were   sifted   to   the   last   detail . 
No   information ,    even   of   the   vaguest   character ,    was   neglected . 
Trains ,    buses ,    trams ,    railway   porters ,    conductors ,    bookstalls ,    stationers   there   was   an   indefatigable   round   of   questions   and   verifications . 
At   least   a   score   of   people   were   detained   and   questioned   until   they   could   satisfy   the   police   as   to   their   movements   on   the   night   in   question . 
The   net   result   was   not   entirely   a   blank . 
Certain   statements   were   borne   in   mind   and   noted   down   as   of   possible   value ,    but   without   further   evidence   they   led   nowhere . 
If   Crome   and   his   colleagues   were   indefatigable ,    Poirot   seemed   to   me   strangely   supine . 
We   argued   now   and   again . 
But   what   is   it   that   you   would   have   me   do ,    my   friend ? 
The   routine   inquiries ,    the   police   make   them   better   than   I   do . 
Always   always   you   want   me   to   run   about   like   the   dog . 
Instead   of   which   you   sit   at   home   like   like
My   force ,    Hastings ,    is   in   my   brain ,    not   in   my   feet ! 
All   the   time ,    whilst   I   seem   to   you   idle ,    I   am   reflecting . 
Is   this   a   time   for   reflection ? 
Yes ,    a   thousand   times   yes . 
But   what   can   you   possibly   gain   by   reflection ? 
You   know   the   facts   of   the   three   cases   by   heart . 
It   is   not   the   facts   I   reflect   upon   but   the   mind   of   the   murderer . 
The   mind   of   a   madman ! 
And   therefore   not   to   be   arrived   at   in   a   minute . 
When   I   know   what   the   murderer   is   like ,    I   shall   be   able   to   find   out   who   he   is . 
And   all   the   time   I   learn   more . 
After   the   Andover   crime ,    what   did   we   know   about   the   murderer ? 
Next   to   nothing   at   all . 
I   begin   to   see   not   what   you   would   like   to   see   the   outlines   of   a   face   and   form   but   the   outlines   of   a   mind . 
A   mind   that   moves   and   works   in   certain   definite   directions . 
My   friend   looked   at   me   dispassionately . 
But ,    yes ,    Hastings ,    I   think   it   is   almost   certain   there   will   be   another . 
A   lot   depends   on   la   chance . 
So   far   our   inconnu   has   been   lucky . 
This   time   the   luck   may   turn   against   him . 
But   in   any   case ,    after   another   crime ,    we   shall   know   infinitely   more . 
Try   and   vary   your   methods   as   you   will ,    your   tastes ,    your   habits ,    your   attitude   of   mind ,    and   your   soul   is   revealed   by   your   actions . 
There   are   confusing   indications   sometimes   it   is   as   though   there   were   two   intelligences   at   work   but   soon   the   outline   will   clear   itself ,    I   shall   know . 
No ,    Hastings ,    I   shall   not   know   his   name   and   address ! 
I   shall   know   what   kind   of   a   man   he   is    . 
Et   alors ,    je   vais   la che . 
As   I   looked   rather   bewildered ,    he   went   on : 
You   comprehend ,    Hastings ,    an   expert   fisherman   knows   exactly   what   flies   to   offer   to   what   fish . 
I   shall   offer   the   right   kind   of   fly . 
You   are   as   bad   as   the   superior   Crome   with   his   eternal   Oh ,    yes ?    Eh   bien ,    and   then   he   will   take   the   bait   and   the   hook   and   we   will   reel   in   the   line    . 
In   the   meantime   people   are   dying   right   and   left . 
And   there   are ,    what   is   it   about   120   road   deaths   every   week ? 
It   is   probably   exactly   the   same   to   those   who   die . 
For   the   others ,    the   relations ,    the   friends   yes ,    there   is   a   difference ,    but   one   thing   at   least   rejoices   me   in   this   case . 
By   all   means   let   us   hear   anything   in   the   nature   of   rejoicing . 
Inutile   to   be   so   sarcastic . 
It   rejoices   me   that   there   is   here   no   shadow   of   guilt   to   distress   the   innocent . 
No ,    no ,    a   thousand   times   no ! 
There   is   nothing   so   terrible   as   to   live   in   an   atmosphere   of   suspicion   to   see   eyes   watching   you   and   the   love   in   them   changing   to   fear   nothing   so   terrible   as   to   suspect   those   near   and   dear   to   you   It   is   poisonous   a   miasma . 
No ,    the   poisoning   of   life   for   the   innocent ,    that ,    at   least ,    we   cannot   lay   at B   C's   door . 
 You'll   soon   be   making   excuses   for   the   man ! 
He   may   believe   himself   fully   justified . 
We   may ,    perhaps ,    end   by   having   sympathy   with   his   point   of   view . 
First   my   inertia   and   then   my   views . 
I   shook   my   head   without   replying . 
All   the   same ,    said   Poirot   after   a   minute   or   two . 
I   have   one   project   that   will   please   you   since   it   is   active   and   not   passive . 
Also ,    it   will   entail   a   lot   of   conversation   and   practically   no   thought . 
I   did   not   quite   like   his   tone . 
The   extraction   from   the   friends ,    relations   and   servants   of   the   victims   of   all   they   know . 
Do   you   suspect   them   of   keeping   things   back ,    then ? 
But   telling   everything   you   know   always   implies   selection . 
If   I   were   to   say   to   you ,    recount   me   your   day   yesterday ,    you   would   perhaps   reply :    I   rose   at   nine ,    I   breakfasted   at   half   past ,    I   had   eggs   and   bacon   and   coffee ,    I   went   to   my   club ,    etc .    You   would   not   include :    I   tore   my   nail   and   had   to   cut   it . 
I   rang   for   shaving   water . 
I   spilt   a   little   coffee   on   the   tablecloth . 
I   brushed   my   hat   and   put   it   on .    One   cannot   tell   everything . 
At   the   time   of   a   murder   people   select   what   they   think   is   important . 
But   quite   frequently   they   think   wrong ! 
And   how   is   one   to   get   at   the   right   things ? 
Simply ,    as   I   said   just   now ,    by   conversation . 
By   discussing   a   certain   happening ,    or   a   certain   person ,    or   a   certain   day ,    over   and   over   again ,    extra   details   are   bound   to   arise . 
Naturally   that   I   do   not   know   or   I   should   not   want   to   find   out . 
But   enough   time   has   passed   now   for   ordinary   things   to   reassume   their   value . 
It   is   against   all   mathematical   laws   that   in   three   cases   of   murder   there   is   no   single   fact   nor   sentence   with   a   bearing   on   the   case . 
Some   trivial   happening ,    some   trivial   remark   there   must   be   which   would   be   a   pointer ! 
It   is   looking   for   the   needle   in   the   haystack ,    I   grant   but   in   the   haystack   there   is   a   needle   of   that   I   am   convinced ! 
It   seemed   to   me   extremely   vague   and   hazy . 
You   do   not   see   it ? 
Your   wits   are   not   so   sharp   as   those   of   a   mere   servant   girl . 
He   tossed   me   over   a   letter . 
It   was   neatly   written   in   a   sloping   board-school   hand . 
Dear   Sir ,    I   hope   you   will   forgive   the   liberty   I   take   in   writing   to   you . 
I   have   been   thinking   a   lot   since   these   awful   two   murders   like   poor   auntie's . 
It   seems   as   though   we're   all   in   the   same   boat ,    as   it   were . 
I   saw   the   young   lady's   picture   in   the   paper ,    the   young   lady ,    I   mean ,    that   is   the   sister   of   the   young   lady   that   was   killed   at   Bexhill . 
I   made   so   bold   as   to   write   to   her   and   tell   her   I   was   coming   to   London   to   get   a   place   and   asked   if   I   could   come   to   her   or   her   mother   as   I   said   two   heads   might   be   better   than   one   and   I   would   not   want   much   wages ,    but   only   to   find   out   who   this   awful   fiend   is   and   perhaps   we   might   get   at   it   better   if   we   could   say   what   we   knew   something   might   come   of   it . 
The   young   lady   wrote   very   nicely   and   said   as   how   she   worked   in   an   office   and   lived   in   a   hostel ,    but   she   suggested   I   might   write   to   you   and   she   said   she'd   been   thinking   something   of   the   same   kind   as   I   had . 
And   she   said   we   were   in   the   same   trouble   and   we   ought   to   stand   together . 
So   I   am   writing ,    sir ,    to   say   I   am   coming   to   London   and   this   is   my   address . 
Hoping   I   am   not   troubling   you ,    Yours   respectfully , 
Mary   Drower ,    said   Poirot ,    is   a   very   intelligent   girl . 
He   picked   up   another   letter . 
It   was   a   line   from   Franklin   Clarke ,    saying   that   he   was   coming   to   London   and   would   call   upon   Poirot   the   following   day   if   not   inconvenient . 
Do   not   despair ,    mon   ami ,    said   Poirot . 
Action   is   about   to   begin . 
Franklin   Clarke   arrived   at   three clock   on   the   following   afternoon   and   came   straight   to   the   point   without   beating   about   the   bush . 
M .    Poirot ,    he   said ,    I'm   not   satisfied . 
No ,    Mr .    Clarke ? 
 I've   no   doubt   that   Crome   is   a   very   efficient   officer ,    but ,    frankly ,    he   puts   my   back   up . 
That   air   of   his   of   knowing   best ! 
I   hinted   something   of   what   I   had   in   mind   to   your   friend   here   when   he   was   down   at   Churston ,    but   I've   had   all   my   brother's   affairs   to   settle   up   and   I   haven't   been   free   until   now . 
My   idea   is , .    Poirot ,    that   we   oughtn't   to   let   the   grass   grow   under   our   feet
Just   what   Hastings   is   always   saying ! 
 We've   got   to   get   ready   for   the   next   crime . 
So   you   think   there   will   be   a   next   crime ? 
I   want   to   get   organized . 
Tell   me   your   idea   exactly ? 
I   propose , .    Poirot ,    a   kind   of   special   legion   to   work   under   your   orders   composed   of   the   friends   and   relatives   of   the   murdered   people . 
By   putting   our   heads   together   I   feel   we   might   get   at   something . 
Also ,    when   the   next   warning   comes ,    by   being   on   the   spot ,    one   of   us   might   I   don't   say   it's   probable   but   we   might   recognize   some   person   as   having   been   near   the   scene   of   a   previous   crime . 
I   see   your   idea ,    and   I   approve ,    but   you   must   remember ,    Mr .    Clarke ,    the   relations   and   friends   of   the   other   victims   are   hardly   in   your   sphere   of   life . 
They   are   employed   persons   and   though   they   might   be   given   a   short   vacation
 I'm   the   only   person   in   a   position   to   foot   the   bill . 
Not   that   I'm   particularly   well   off   myself ,    but   my   brother   died   a   rich   man   and   it   will   eventually   come   to   me . 
I   propose ,    as   I   say ,    to   enrol   a   special   legion ,    the   members   to   be   paid   for   their   services   at   the   same   rate   as   they   get   habitually ,    with ,    of   course ,    the   additional   expenses . 
Who   do   you   propose   should   form   this   legion ? 
As   a   matter   of   fact ,    I   wrote   to   Miss   Megan   Barnard   indeed ,    this   is   partly   her   idea . 
I   suggest   myself ,    Miss   Barnard ,    Mr .    Donald   Fraser ,    who   was   engaged   to   the   dead   girl . 
Then   there   is   a   niece   of   the   Andover   woman   Miss   Barnard   knows   her   address . 
I   don't   think   the   husband   would   be   of   any   use   to   us   I   hear   he's   usually   drunk . 
I   also   think   the   Barnards   the   father   and   mother   are   a   bit   old   for   active   campaigning . 
He   flushed   slightly   as   he   spoke   the   name . 
Nobody   in   the   world   could   put   a   gentle   nuance   of   irony   into   a   couple   of   words   better   than   Poirot . 
About   thirty-five   years   fell   away   from   Franklin   Clarke . 
He   looked   suddenly   like   a   shy   schoolboy . 
You   see ,    Miss   Grey   was   with   my   brother   for   over   two   years . 
She   knows   the   countryside   and   the   people   round ,    and   everything . 
 I've   been   away   for   a   year   and   a   half . 
Poirot   took   pity   on   him   and   turned   the   conversation . 
You   have   been   in   the   East ? 
I   had   a   kind   of   roving   commission   to   purchase   things   for   my   brother . 
Very   interesting   it   must   have   been . 
Eh   bien ,    Mr .    Clarke ,    I   approve   very   highly   of   your   idea . 
I   was   saying   to   Hastings   only   yesterday   that   a   rapprochement   of   the   people   concerned   was   needed . 
It   is   necessary   to   pool   reminiscences ,    to   compare   notes   enfin   to   talk   the   thing   over   to   talk   to   talk   and   again   to   talk . 
Out   of   some   innocent   phrase   may   come   enlightenment . 
A   few   days   later   the   Special   Legion   met   at   Poirot's   rooms . 
As   they   sat   round   looking   obediently   towards   Poirot ,    who   had   his   place ,    like   the   chairman   at   a   board   meeting ,    at   the   head   of   the   table ,    I   myself   passed   them ,    as   it   were ,    in   review ,    confirming   or   revising   my   first   impressions   of   them . 
The   three   girls   were   all   of   them   striking-looking   the   extraordinary   fair   beauty   of   Thora   Grey ,    the   dark   intensity   of   Megan   Barnard ,    with   her   strange   Red   Indian   immobility   of   face   Mary   Drower ,    neatly   dressed   in   a   black   coat   and   skirt ,    with   her   pretty ,    intelligent   face . 
Of   the   two   men ,    Franklin   Clarke ,    big ,    bronzed   and   talkative ,    Donald   Fraser ,    self-contained   and   quiet ,    made   an   interesting   contrast   to   each   other . 
Poirot ,    unable ,    of   course ,    to   resist   the   occasion ,    made   a   little   speech . 
Mesdames   and   Messieurs ,    you   know   what   we   are   here   for . 
The   police   are   doing   their   utmost   to   track   down   the   criminal . 
I ,    too ,    in   my   different   way . 
But   it   seems   to   me   a   reunion   of   those   who   have   a   personal   interest   in   the   matter   and   also ,    I   may   say ,    a   personal   knowledge   of   the   victims   might   have   results   that   an   outside   investigation   cannot   pretend   to   attain . 
Here   we   have   three   murders   an   old   woman ,    a   young   girl ,    an   elderly   man . 
Only   one   thing   links   these   three   people   together   the   fact   that   the   same   person   killed   them . 
That   means   that   the   same   person   was   present   in   three   different   localities   and   was   seen   necessarily   by   a   large   number   of   people . 
That   he   is   a   madman   in   an   advanced   stage   of   mania   goes   without   saying . 
That   his   appearance   and   behaviour   give   no   suggestion   of   such   a   fact   is   equally   certain . 
This   person   and   though   I   say   he ,    remember   it   may   be   a   man   or   a   woman   has   all   the   devilish   cunning   of   insanity . 
He   has   succeeded   so   far   in   covering   his   traces   completely . 
The   police   have   certain   vague   indications   but   nothing   upon   which   they   can   act . 
Nevertheless ,    there   must   exist   indications   which   are   not   vague   but   certain . 
To   take   one   particular   point   this   assassin ,    he   did   not   arrive   at   Bexhill   at   midnight   and   find   conveniently   on   the   beach   a   young   lady   whose   name   began   with   B
Must   we   go   into   that ? 
It   was   Donald   Fraser   who   spoke   the   words   wrung   from   him ,    it   seemed ,    by   some   inner   anguish . 
It   is   necessary   to   go   into   everything ,    monsieur ,    said   Poirot ,    turning   to   him . 
You   are   here ,    not   to   save   your   feelings   by   refusing   to   think   of   details ,    but   if   necessary   to   harrow   them   by   going   into   the   matter   au   fond . 
As   I   say ,    it   was   not   chance   that   provided B with   a   victim   in   Betty   Barnard . 
There   must   have   been   deliberate   selection   on   his   part   and   therefore   premeditation . 
That   is   to   say ,    he   must   have   reconnoitred   the   ground   beforehand . 
There   were   facts   of   which   he   had   informed   himself   the   best   hour   for   the   committing   of   the   crime   at   Andover   the   mise   en   sc   ne   at   Bexhill   the   habits   of   Sir   Carmichael   Clarke   at   Churston . 
Me ,    for   one ,    I   refuse   to   believe   that   there   is   no   indication   no   slightest   hint   that   might   help   to   establish   his   identity . 
I   make   the   assumption   that   one   or   possibly   all   of   you   knows   something   that   they   do   not   know   they   know . 
Sooner   or   later ,    by   reason   of   your   association   with   one   another ,    something   will   come   to   light ,    will   take   on   a   significance   as   yet   undreamed   of . 
It   is   like   the   jig-saw   puzzle   each   of   you   may   have   a   piece   apparently   without   meaning ,    but   which   when   reunited   may   show   a   definite   portion   of   the   picture   as   a   whole . 
Poirot   looked   at   her   inquiringly . 
She   spoke   with   that   kind   of   desperate   intensity   that   I   had   come   to   associate   with   her   personality . 
Words ,    mademoiselle ,    are   only   the   outer   clothing   of   ideas . 
Well ,    I   think   it's   sense ,    said   Mary   Drower . 
I   do   really ,    miss . 
 It's   often   when   you're   talking   over   things   that   you   seem   to   see   your   way   clear . 
Your   mind   gets   made   up   for   you   sometimes   without   your   knowing   how   it's   happened . 
Talking   leads   to   a   lot   of   things   one   way   and   another . 
If   least   said   is   soonest   mended ,    it's   the   converse   we   want   here ,    said   Franklin   Clarke . 
What   do   you   say ,    Mr .    Fraser ? 
I   rather   doubt   the   practical   applicability   of   what   you   say , .    Poirot . 
What   do   you   think ,    Thora ? 
I   think   the   principle   of   talking   things   over   is   always   sound . 
Suppose ,    suggested   Poirot ,    that   you   all   go   over   your   own   remembrances   of   the   time   preceding   the   murder . 
Perhaps   you'll   start ,    Mr .    Clarke . 
Let   me   see ,    on   the   morning   of   the   day   Car   was   killed   I   went   off   sailing . 
Lovely   out   there   on   the   bay . 
Irish   stew ,    I   remember . 
Wrote   some   letters ,    missed   the   post ,    and   drove   into   Paignton   to   post   them . 
Then   dinner   and   I'm   not   ashamed   to   say   it   reread   a   book   of .    Nesbit's   that   I   used   to   love   as   a   kid . 
Now   reflect ,    Mr .    Clarke ,    did   you   meet   anyone   on   your   way   down   to   the   sea   in   the   morning ? 
Can   you   remember   anything   about   them ? 
Not   a   damned   thing   now . 
Well   let's   see   I   remember   a   remarkably   fat   woman   she   wore   a   striped   silk   dress   and   I   wondered   why   had   a   couple   of   kids   with   her   two   young   men   with   a   fox   terrier   on   the   beach   throwing   stones   for   it   Oh ,    yes ,    a   girl   with   yellow   hair   squeaking   as   she   bathed   funny   how   things   come   back   like   a   photograph   developing . 
You   are   a   good   subject . 
Now   later   in   the   day   the   garden   going   to   the   post
The   gardener   watering   Going   to   the   post ? 
Nearly   ran   down   a   bicyclist   silly   woman   wobbling   and   shouting   to   a   friend . 
 That's   all ,    I'm   afraid . 
Poirot   turned   to   Thora   Grey . 
Thora   Grey   replied   in   her   clear ,    positive   voice : 
I   did   correspondence   with   Sir   Carmichael   in   the   morning   saw   the   housekeeper . 
I   wrote   letters   and   did   needlework   in   the   afternoon ,    I   fancy . 
It   is   difficult   to   remember . 
It   was   quite   an   ordinary   day . 
I   went   to   bed   early . 
Rather   to   my   surprise ,    Poirot   asked   no   further . 
Miss   Barnard   can   you   bring   back   your   remembrances   of   the   last   time   you   saw   your   sister ? 
It   would   be   about   a   fortnight   before   her   death . 
I   was   down   for   Saturday   and   Sunday . 
We   went   to   Hastings   to   the   swimming   pool . 
What   did   you   talk   about   most   of   the   time ? 
I   gave   her   a   piece   of   my   mind ,    said   Megan . 
The   girl   frowned   in   an   effort   of   memory . 
She   talked   about   being   hard   up   of   a   hat   and   a   couple   of   summer   frocks   she'd   just   bought . 
And   a   little   of   Don   She   also   said   she   disliked   Milly   Higley   that's   the   girl   at   the   caf   and   we   laughed   about   the   Merrion   woman   who   keeps   the   caf   I   don't   remember   anything   else    . 
She   didn't   mention   any   man   forgive   me ,    Mr .    Fraser   she   might   be   meeting ? 
She   wouldn't   to   me ,    said   Megan   dryly . 
Poirot   turned   to   the   red-haired   young   man   with   the   square   jaw . 
Mr .    Fraser   I   want   you   to   cast   your   mind   back . 
You   went ,    you   said ,    to   the   caf   on   the   fatal   evening . 
Your   first   intention   was   to   wait   there   and   watch   for   Betty   Barnard   to   come   out . 
Can   you   remember   anyone   at   all   whom   you   noticed   whilst   you   were   waiting   there ? 
There   were   a   large   number   of   people   walking   along   the   front . 
I   can't   remember   any   of   them . 
Excuse   me ,    but   are   you   trying ? 
However   preoccupied   the   mind   may   be ,    the   eye   notices   mechanically   unintelligently   but   accurately    . 
The   young   man   repeated   doggedly : 
Poirot   sighed   and   turned   to   Mary   Drower . 
I   suppose   you   got   letters   from   your   aunt ? 
Oh ,    yes ,    sir . 
Two   days   before   the   murder ,    sir . 
She   said   the   old   devil   had   been   round   and   that   she'd   sent   him   off   with   a   flea   in   the   ear   excuse   the   expression ,    sir   said   she   expected   me   over   on   the   Wednesday   that's   my   day   out ,    sir   and   she   said   we'd   go   to   the   pictures . 
It   was   going   to   be   my   birthday ,    sir . 
Something   the   thought   of   the   little   festivity   perhaps   suddenly   brought   the   tears   to   Mary's   eyes . 
She   gulped   down   a   sob . 
You   must   forgive   me ,    sir . 
I   don't   want   to   be   silly . 
It   was   just   the   thought   of   her   and   me   looking   forward   to   our   treat . 
It   upset   me   somehow ,    sir . 
I   know   just   what   you   feel   like ,    said   Franklin   Clarke . 
 It's   always   the   little   things   that   get   one   and   especially   anything   like   a   treat   or   a   present   something   jolly   and   natural . 
I   remember   seeing   a   woman   run   over   once . 
 She'd   just   bought   some   new   shoes . 
I   saw   her   lying   there   and   the   burst   parcel   with   the   ridiculous   little   high-heeled   slippers   peeping   out   it   gave   me   a   turn   they   looked   so   pathetic . 
Megan   said   with   a   sudden   eager   warmth : 
 That's   true   that's   awfully   true . 
The   same   thing   happened   after   Betty   died . 
Mum   had   bought   some   stockings   for   her   as   a   present   bought   them   the   very   day   it   happened . 
Poor   mum ,    she   was   all   broken   up . 
I   found   her   crying   over   them . 
She   kept   saying :    I   bought   them   for   Betty   I   bought   them   for   Betty   and   she   never   even   saw   them . 
Her   own   voice   quivered   a   little . 
She   leaned   forward ,    looking   straight   at   Franklin   Clarke . 
There   was   between   them   a   sudden   sympathy   a   fraternity   in   trouble . 
I   know ,    he   said . 
Those   are   just   the   sort   of   things   that   are   hell   to   remember . 
Thora   Grey   diverted   the   conversation . 
 Aren't   we   going   to   make   any   plans   for   the   future ? 
Franklin   Clarke   resumed   his   ordinary   manner . 
I   think   that   when   the   moment   comes   that   is ,    when   the   fourth   letter   arrives   we   ought   to   join   forces . 
Until   then ,    perhaps   we   might   each   try   our   luck   on   our   own . 
I   don't   know   whether   there   are   any   points .    Poirot   thinks   might   repay   investigation ? 
I   could   make   some   suggestions ,    said   Poirot . 
Go   ahead , .    Poirot . 
I   consider   it   just   possible   that   the   waitress ,    Milly   Higley ,    might   know   something   useful . 
A   Milly   Higley ,    wrote   down   Franklin   Clarke . 
I   suggest   two   methods   of   approach . 
You ,    Miss   Barnard ,    might   try   what   I   call   the   offensive   approach . 
I   suppose   you   think   that   suits   my   style ? 
Pick   a   quarrel   with   the   girl   say   you   knew   she   never   liked   your   sister   and   that   your   sister   had   told   you   all   about   her . 
If   I   do   not   err ,    that   will   provoke   a   flood   of   recrimination . 
She   will   tell   you   just   what   she   thought   of   your   sister ! 
Some   useful   fact   may   emerge . 
May   I   suggest ,    Mr .    Fraser ,    that   you   should   show   signs   of   interest   in   the   girl ? 
No ,    it   is   not   necessary . 
It   is   just   a   possible   line   of   exploration . 
Shall   I   try   my   hand ? 
 I've   er   a   pretty   wide   experience , .    Poirot . 
Let   me   see   what   I   can   do   with   the   young   lady . 
 You've   got   your   own   part   of   the   world   to   attend   to ,    said   Thora   Grey   rather   sharply . 
Franklin's   face   fell   just   a   little . 
Tout   de'm   me ,    I   do   not   think   there   is   much   you   can   do   down   there   for   the   present ,    said   Poirot . 
Mademoiselle   Grey   now ,    she   is   far   more   fitted
But   you   see , .    Poirot ,    I   have   left   Devon   for   good . 
Miss   Grey   very   kindly   stayed   on   to   help   me   clear   up   things ,    said   Franklin . 
But   naturally   she   prefers   a   post   in   London . 
Poirot   directed   a   sharp   glance   from   one   to   the   other . 
I   was   admiring   the   faint   colour   in   Thora   Grey's   cheeks   and   almost   missed   Clarke's   reply . 
By   the   way , .    Poirot ,    I   wonder   if   you   could   see   your   way   to   running   down   to   Devon   and   paying   her   a   visit ? 
She   expressed   a   desire   to   see   you   before   I   left . 
Of   course ,    she   often   can't   see   people   for   a   couple   of   days   at   a   time ,    but   if   you   would   risk   that   at   my   expense ,    of   course . 
Certainly ,    Mr .    Clarke . 
Shall   we   say   the   day   after   tomorrow ? 
 I'll   let   nurse   know   and   she'll   arrange   the   dope   accordingly . 
For   you ,    my   child ,    said   Poirot ,    turning   to   Mary ,    I   think   you   might   perhaps   do   good   work   in   Andover . 
Children   will   not   chat   readily   to   outsiders . 
But   you   are   known   in   the   street   where   your   aunt   lived . 
There   were   a   good   many   children   playing   about . 
They   may   have   noticed   who   went   in   and   out   of   your   aunt's   shop . 
What   about   Miss   Grey   and   myself ? 
That   is ,    if   I'm   not   to   go   to   Bexhill . 
M .    Poirot ,    said   Thora   Grey ,    what   was   the   postmark   on   the   third   letter ? 
She   said   thoughtfully :    SW15 ,    Putney ,    that   is   right ,    is   it   not ? 
For   a   wonder ,    the   newspapers   printed   it   correctly . 
That   seems   to   point   to B being   a   Londoner . 
On   the   face   of   it ,    yes . 
One   ought   to   be   able   to   draw   him ,    said   Clarke . 
M .    Poirot ,    how   would   it   be   if   I   inserted   an   advertisement   something   after   these   lines : B .    Urgent , . .    close   on   your   track . 
A   hundred   for   my   silence . 
X . . .    Nothing   quite   so   crude   as   that   but   you   see   the   idea . 
It   is   a   possibility   yes . 
Might   induce   him   to   try   and   have   a   shot   at   me . 
I   think   it's   very   dangerous   and   silly ,    said   Thora   Grey   sharply . 
What   about   it , .    Poirot ? 
It   can   do   no   harm   to   try . 
I   think   myself   that B will   be   too   cunning   to   reply . 
I   see ,    Mr .    Clarke ,    that   you   are   if   I   may   say   so   without   being   offensive   still   a   boy   at   heart . 
Franklin   Clarke   looked   a   little   abashed . 
Well ,    he   said ,    consulting   his   notebook . 
A   Miss   Barnard   and   Milly   Higley . 
I   don't   feel   any   of   it   is   much   good ,    but   it   will   be   something   to   do   whilst   waiting . 
He   got   up   and   a   few   minutes   later   the   meeting   had   dispersed . 
Poirot   returned   to   his   seat   and   sat   humming   a   little   tune   to   himself . 
Unfortunate   that   she   is   so   intelligent ,    he   murmured . 
Words ,    she   snaps   out . 
At   once   she   perceives   that   what   I   am   saying   means   nothing   at   all . 
I   thought   it   sounded   very   plausible . 
It   was   just   that   she   perceived . 
 Didn't   you   mean   what   you   said ,    then ? 
What   I   said   could   have   been   comprised   into   one   short   sentence . 
Instead   I   repeated   myself   ad   lib   without   anyone   but   Mademoiselle   Megan   being   aware   of   the   fact . 
Eh   bien   to   get   things   going ! 
To   imbue   everyone   with   the   impression   that   there   was   work   to   be   done ! 
To   start   shall   we   say   the   conversations ! 
 Don't   you   think   any   of   these   lines   will   lead   to   anything ? 
Oh ,    it   is   always   possible . 
In   the   midst   of   tragedy   we   start   the   comedy . 
It   is   so ,    is   it   not ? 
The   human   drama ,    Hastings ! 
Here   are   three   sets   of   human   beings   brought   together   by   a   common   tragedy . 
Immediately   a   second   drama   commences   tout   fait   part . 
Do   you   remember   my   first   case   in   England ? 
Oh ,    so   many   years   ago   now . 
I   brought   together   two   people   who   loved   one   another   by   the   simple   method   of   having   one   of   them   arrested   for   murder ! 
Nothing   less   would   have   done   it ! 
In   the   midst   of   death   we   are   in   life ,    Hastings   Murder ,    I   have   often   noticed ,    is   a   great   matchmaker . 
Really ,    Poirot ,    I   cried   scandalized . 
 I'm   sure   none   of   those   people   was   thinking   of   anything   but
Mais   oui ,    as   they   departed ,    did   you   not   come   back   from   the   door   humming   a   tune ? 
One   may   do   that   without   being   callous . 
Certainly ,    but   that   tune   told   me   your   thoughts . 
To   hum   a   tune   is   extremely   dangerous . 
It   reveals   the   subconscious   mind . 
The   tune   you   hummed   dates ,    I   think ,    from   the   days   of   the   war . 
Comme   a ,    Poirot   sang   in   an   abominable   falsetto   voice : 
Some   of   the   time   I   love   a   brunette , 
Some   of   the   time   I   love   a   blonde
 ( Who   comes   from   Eden   by   way   of   Sweden )  . 
What   could   be   more   revealing ? 
Mais   je   crois   que   la   blonde emporte   sur   la   brunette ! 
Really ,    Poirot ,    I   cried ,    blushing   slightly . 
Did   you   observe   how   Franklin   Clarke   was   suddenly   at   one   and   in   sympathy   with   Mademoiselle   Megan ? 
How   he   leaned   forward   and   looked   at   her ? 
And   did   you   also   notice   how   very   much   annoyed   Mademoiselle   Thora   Grey   was   about   it ? 
And   Mr .    Donald   Fraser ,    he
Your   mind   is   incurably   sentimental . 
That   is   the   last   thing   my   mind   is . 
You   are   the   sentimental   one ,    Hastings . 
I   was   about   to   argue   the   point   hotly ,    but   at   that   moment   the   door   opened . 
To   my   astonishment   it   was   Thora   Grey   who   entered . 
Forgive   me   for   coming   back ,    she   said   composedly . 
But   there   was   something   that   I   think   I   would   like   to   tell   you , .    Poirot . 
Sit   down ,    will   you   not ? 
She   took   a   seat   and   hesitated   for   just   a   minute   as   though   choosing   her   words . 
It   is   just   this , .    Poirot . 
Mr .    Clarke   very   generously   gave   you   to   understand   just   now   that   I   had   left   Combeside   by   my   own   wish . 
He   is   a   very   kind   and   loyal   person . 
But   as   a   matter   of   fact ,    it   is   not   quite   like   that . 
I   was   quite   prepared   to   stay   on   there   is   any   amount   of   work   to   be   done   in   connection   with   the   collections . 
It   was   Lady   Clarke   who   wished   me   to   leave ! 
She   is   a   very   ill   woman ,    and   her   brain   is   somewhat   muddled   with   the   drugs   they   give   her . 
It   makes   her   suspicious   and   fanciful . 
She   took   an   unreasoning   dislike   to   me   and   insisted   that   I   should   leave   the   house . 
I   could   not   but   admire   the   girl's   courage . 
She   did   not   attempt   to   gloss   over   facts ,    as   so   many   might   have   been   tempted   to   do ,    but   went   straight   to   the   point   with   an   admirable   candour . 
My   heart   went   out   to   her   in   admiration   and   sympathy . 
I   call   it   splendid   of   you   to   come   and   tell   us   this ,    I   said . 
 It's   always   better   to   have   the   truth ,    she   said   with   a   little   smile . 
I   don't   want   to   shelter   behind   Mr .    Clarke's   chivalry . 
He   is   a   very   chivalrous   man . 
There   was   a   warm   glow   in   her   words . 
She   evidently   admired   Franklin   Clarke   enormously . 
You   have   been   very   honest ,    mademoiselle ,    said   Poirot . 
It   is   rather   a   blow   to   me ,    said   Thora   ruefully . 
I   had   no   idea   Lady   Clarke   disliked   me   so   much . 
In   fact ,    I   always   thought   she   was   rather   fond   of   me . 
She   made   a   wry   face . 
That   is   all   I   came   to   say . 
I   call   that   very   sporting   of   her ,    I   said   as   I   returned   to   the   room . 
She   has   courage ,    that   girl . 
What   do   you   mean   calculation ? 
I   mean   that   she   has   the   power   of   looking   ahead . 
I   looked   at   him   doubtfully . 
She   really   is   a   lovely   girl ,    I   said . 
And   wears   very   lovely   clothes . 
That   cr   pe   marocain   and   the   silver   fox   collar   dernier   cri . 
 You're   a   man   milliner ,    Poirot . 
I   never   notice   what   people   have   on . 
You   should   join   a   nudist   colony . 
As   I   was   about   to   make   an   indignant   rejoinder ,    he   said ,    with   a   sudden   change   of   subject : 
Do   you   know ,    Hastings ,    I   cannot   rid   my   mind   of   the   impression   that   already ,    in   our   conversations   this   afternoon ,    something   was   said   that   was   significant . 
It   is   odd   I   cannot   pin   down   exactly   what   it   was   Just   an   impression   that   passed   through   my   mind   That   reminds   me   of   something   I   have   already   heard   or   seen   or   noted    . 
No   not   at   Churston   Before   that   No   matter ,    presently   it   will   come   to   me    . 
He   looked   at   me    ( perhaps   I   had   not   been   attending   very   closely )  ,    laughed   and   began   once   more   to   hum . 
She   is   an   angel ,    is   she   not ? 
From   Eden ,    by   way   of   Sweden    . 
There   was   an   air   of   deep   and   settled   melancholy   over   Combeside   when   we   saw   it   again   for   the   second   time . 
This   may ,    perhaps ,    have   been   partly   due   to   the   weather   it   was   a   moist   September   day   with   a   hint   of   autumn   in   the   air ,    and   partly ,    no   doubt ,    it   was   the   semi-shut-up   state   of   the   house . 
The   downstairs   rooms   were   closed   and   shuttered ,    and   the   small   room   into   which   we   were   shown   smelt   damp   and   airless . 
A   capable-looking   hospital   nurse   came   to   us   there   pulling   down   her   starched   cuffs . 
I   got   Mr .    Clarke's   letter   saying   you   were   coming . 
Poirot   inquired   after   Lady   Clarke's   health . 
Not   at   all   bad   really ,    all   things   considered . 
All   things   considered ,    I   presumed ,    meant   considering   she   was   under   sentence   of   death . 
One   can't   hope   for   much   improvement ,    of   course ,    but   some   new   treatment   has   made   things   a   little   easier   for   her . 
Dr .    Logan   is   quite   pleased   with   her   condition . 
But   it   is   true ,    is   it   not ,    that   she   can   never   recover ? 
Oh ,    we   never   actually   say   that ,    said   Nurse   Capstick ,    a   little   shocked   by   this   plain   speaking . 
I   suppose   her   husband's   death   was   a   terrible   shock   to   her ? 
Well , .    Poirot ,    if   you   understand   what   I   mean ,    it   wasn't   as   much   of   a   shock   as   it   would   have   been   to   anyone   in   full   possession   of   her   health   and   faculties . 
Things   are   dimmed   for   Lady   Clarke   in   her   condition . 
Pardon   my   asking ,    but   was   she   deeply   attached   to   her   husband   and   he   to   her ? 
Oh ,    yes ,    they   were   a   very   happy   couple . 
He   was   very   worried   and   upset   about   her ,    poor   man . 
 It's   always   worse   for   a   doctor ,    you   know . 
They   can't   buoy   themselves   up   with   false   hopes . 
 I'm   afraid   it   preyed   on   his   mind   very   much   to   begin   with . 
One   gets   used   to   everything ,    doesn't   one ? 
And   then   Sir   Carmichael   had   his   collection . 
A   hobby   is   a   great   consolation   to   a   man . 
He   used   to   run   up   to   sales   occasionally ,    and   then   he   and   Miss   Grey   were   busy   recataloguing   and   rearranging   the   museum   on   a   new   system . 
Oh ,    yes   Miss   Grey . 
She   has   left ,    has   she   not ? 
Yes   I'm   very   sorry   about   it   but   ladies   do   take   these   fancies   sometimes   when   they're   not   well . 
And   there's   no   arguing   with   them . 
 It's   better   to   give   in . 
Miss   Grey   was   very   sensible   about   it . 
Had   Lady   Clarke   always   disliked   her ? 
No   that   is   to   say ,    not   disliked . 
As   a   matter   of   fact ,    I   think   she   rather   liked   her   to   begin   with . 
But   there ,    I   mustn't   keep   you   gossiping . 
My   patient   will   be   wondering   what   has   become   of   us . 
She   led   us   upstairs   to   a   room   on   the   first   floor . 
What   had   at   one   time   been   a   bedroom   had   been   turned   into   a   cheerful-looking   sitting   room . 
Lady   Clarke   was   sitting   in   a   big   armchair   near   the   window . 
She   was   painfully   thin ,    and   her   face   had   the   grey ,    haggard   look   of   one   who   suffers   much   pain . 
She   had   a   slightly   faraway ,    dreamy   look ,    and   I   noticed   that   the   pupils   of   her   eyes   were   mere   pinpoints . 
This   is .    Poirot   whom   you   wanted   to   see ,    said   Nurse   Capstick   in   her   high ,    cheerful   voice . 
Oh ,    yes , .    Poirot ,    said   Lady   Clarke   vaguely . 
My   friend   Captain   Hastings ,    Lady   Clarke . 
So   good   of   you   both   to   come . 
We   sat   down   as   her   vague   gesture   directed . 
Lady   Clarke   seemed   to   have   lapsed   into   a   dream . 
Presently   with   a   slight   effort   she   roused   herself . 
It   was   about   Car ,    wasn't   it ? 
She   sighed ,    but   still   in   a   faraway   manner ,    shaking   her   head . 
We   never   thought   it   would   be   that   way   round   I   was   so   sure   I   should   be   the   first   to   go   She   mused   a   minute   or   two . 
Car   was   very   strong   wonderful   for   his   age . 
He   was   nearly   sixty   but   he   seemed   more   like   fifty   Yes ,    very   strong    . 
She   relapsed   again   into   her   dream . 
Poirot ,    who   was   well   acquainted   with   the   effects   of   certain   drugs   and   of   how   they   give   their   taker   the   impression   of   endless   time ,    said   nothing . 
Yes   it   was   good   of   you   to   come . 
He   said   he   wouldn't   forget   to   tell   you . 
I   hope   Franklin   isn't   going   to   be   foolish   he's   so   easily   taken   in ,    in   spite   of   having   knocked   about   the   world   so   much . 
Men   are   like   that   They   remain   boys   Franklin ,    in   particular . 
He   has   an   impulsive   nature ,    said   Poirot . 
Yes   yes   And   very   chivalrous . 
Men   are   so   foolish   that   way . 
Even   Car   Her   voice   tailed   off . 
She   shook   her   head   with   a   febrile   impatience . 
Everything's   so   dim   One's   body   is   a   nuisance , .    Poirot ,    especially   when   it   gets   the   upper   hand . 
One   is   conscious   of   nothing   else   whether   the   pain   will   hold   off   or   not   nothing   else   seems   to   matter . 
I   know ,    Lady   Clarke . 
It   is   one   of   the   tragedies   of   this   life . 
It   makes   me   so   stupid . 
I   cannot   even   remember   what   it   was   I   wanted   to   say   to   you . 
Was   it   something   about   your   husband's   death ? 
Yes ,    perhaps   Mad ,    poor   creature   the   murderer ,    I   mean . 
 It's   all   the   noise   and   the   speed   nowadays   people   can't   stand   it . 
 I've   always   been   sorry   for   mad   people   their   heads   must   feel   so   queer . 
And   then ,    being   shut   up   it   must   be   so   terrible . 
But   what   else   can   one   do ? 
If   they   kill   people   She   shook   her   head   gently   pained . 
You   haven't   caught   him   yet ? 
He   must   have   been   hanging   round   here   that   day . 
There   were   so   many   strangers   about ,    Lady   Clarke . 
It   is   the   holiday   season . 
Yes   I   forgot   But   they   keep   down   by   the   beaches ,    they   don't   come   up   near   the   house . 
No   stranger   came   to   the   house   that   day . 
demanded   Lady   Clarke ,    with   a   sudden   vigour . 
Poirot   looked   slightly   taken   aback . 
The   servants ,    he   said . 